Hello. I'm Professor Cox and I will be guiding you through this us history online distance class. In this segment, I'll introduce the course covering topics such as who I am, how to use canvas, the syllabus, course logistics, and your initial assignments. Additionally, we'll watch a video session I held in another class that addresses why we study history. Although we can't have a live discussion, I encourage you to watch this pre recorded segment where I discuss this topic with other students. Let me tell you a little bit about who I am. I graduated high school in 1973, joined the Navy during the Vietnam War, and served for ten years. After I left the Navy, I earned a computer science degree and worked at Hewlett Packard. My passion for history led me back to academia, culminating in a BA in history, graduating magna cum laude, full scholarship for graduate study at the University of California, and a PhD in latin american history. My specialty is modern Mexico, specifically the us occupation of Mexico from 1846 to 1848. Though my primary field is latin american history, I teach us and world history as well. I've been teaching at Mesa College since 2004 and started online teaching in 2020. You obviously know how to get on canvas, otherwise you wouldn't be watching this video. When you get to the home page, you will see that the course is structured into six modules with the first two visible. Initially, modules unlock sequentially as you complete assignments. The lectures I have used in previous online classes were pre recorded during the COVID shutdown when we were meeting on Zoom. I have started updating these lectures, leaving out verbal clumsiness and providing a more scholarly presentation. You will not hear my voice on these lectures because I haven't been able to clone my voice in a reasonable fashion. I want you to know that I wrote all of these lectures and have not used materials from any other source unless specified. This is all my original work and I look forward to seeing your original work in this course. The course materials you will find on canvas include a syllabus, study guides, and additional resources from the textbook publisher. Our textbook is available online for free via Openstax us history should you prefer a print copy, purchasing options are provided. Information about how to purchase can be found on canvas. Each module contains a series of video lectures accompanied by questions. These are designed to test your understanding of the material presented in the videos. I will review your answers and either mark them complete or incomplete. If I mark all answers in a segment correct, I will mark the assignment complete if you complete all assignments in the first three modules, which means watching each video lecture accurately, answering all of the questions and having your answers marked as complete, you will be eligible for exemption from the midterm exam. If I mark your answers incomplete, I will give you feedback about what is missing and you can resubmit the assignment. I wont answer the question for you. You can do this as many times as necessary before the cutoff date for the midterm. My thinking is that if you can demonstrate a thorough understanding of the course material through these assignments, you have already answered all of the questions on the midterm. It's a way to reward consistent engagement and comprehension over the course of the semester. However, it's important to note that this exemption is contingent on the quality of your responses. You must provide answers that align with the information and viewpoints presented in the video lectures. I will review each submission to ensure it meets the required standard. In cases where your response needs revision, youll have the opportunity to make corrections and resubmit I need to add another comment about these assignments. Your simple task is to watch the video lecture and answer the question based on what you learned from the video. It is not to demonstrate how well you can look up stuff on the Internet. If you try and answer the questions without watching the videos by using other Internet sources or chat bots, that is plagiarism and I will know. In that case, I will not grade any more of your assignments and you will lose any chance at exemption from the exam. Do not even try it. I will not give any warning and there will be no appeal. Our grading scale translates 1000 points into a standard 100 point system with opportunities for extra credit. The syllabus lists historical works you will need to acquire on your own, either from the bookstore or elsewhere. Any edition of these works is acceptable and you may be able to find online editions of some of them. I have tried to keep the expense to you. At a minimum, you cannot reach me by telephone. The phone number in the syllabus is there because it is required to be there, but it is a voicemail box I have never set up and never checked in 20 years. I will respond to email on canvas. I encourage you not to use my district email because I get hundreds of emails a week, most of which I have no interest in. It is easy for me to not notice and perhaps inadvertently delete emails. Email via canvas will result in a quicker response. I have set hours for consultations on Zoom and if you are unable to meet during those times, you can make arrangements with me through email. There is also a discussion topic titled Open Forum discussion. I encourage you to check this discussion board from time to time. I will use it to communicate with you and to respond to your questions. You may also use it as a form to answer each other's questions. Communication goes both ways. In a distance course, I need to be able to reach out to you. The only way I have to do that is through email and canvas. I will post announcements on Monday mornings to set the framework for the coming week. Make sure you keep up with them. Also, make sure that your email address on canvas and with the registrar is one that you check on a regular basis. I will sometimes post things that are time sensitive and if you're not paying attention you might miss them. I will not be sympathetic if you do not read the announcements and your email. This class is full with a waiting list. I don't want anyone to drop, but if you feel this class is not going to work for you, you can make room for someone else and I won't feel bad. Also, anyone who is not logged into canvas by Friday at noon will be dropped. Let me repeat that anyone who has not logged into canvas by Friday at noon will be dropped. We will have a number of online discussions. These are graded activities with specified start and end dates. Unlike other assignments, discussions cannot be submitted late. Even though the discussions are asynchronous, we don't all meet at the same time. It is only available for a limited time and its intent is to foster interaction with your colleagues. If I scheduled a meeting for a certain date and time and you fail to attend, then after the meeting had ended, you asked to speak to the empty room where the meeting was. How do you think I should respond? I will not accept late work for discussions. You will notice in the syllabus I have assigned dates to the modules corresponding to weeks in the semester. The only hard dates you need to pay attention to are the weeks before the midterm and final exams. There will be a cutoff after which no new submissions will be accepted. This will allow me to grade all of your submissions before the exam. As I already discussed, once discussions are closed, no more submissions will be accepted. Exams will be timed and they will be available online for one week. You will notice on canvas there is a discussion due this week. You must submit your original posts and responses by next Monday at midnight. Also notice near the top of the canvas homepage there is a link to a document titled Exam one study Guide. This document contains all of the questions that might appear on the midterm exam. I encourage you to keep this guide with you as you go through the lectures and note the answers when you find them. This will help you to prepare for the midterm should you be required to take it. I have structured this course in such a way that I hope will give everyone a chance to succeed. Some of you may not think studying history is either important or interesting. Are only taking this course to satisfy a requirement you might consider there is a reason why it is a requirement. In the next segment you will get a feel for why I think studying history is both important and interesting. I am available to help you in any way I can. Welcome to the class and I look forward to a successful semester together.
