 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Sometimes late when things are real and people share the gift of gab between themselves. I never did give nothing to the tin man that he didn't already have. And cause never was the reason for the evening or the tropic of Sir Galahad. I'm spinning round round round round. Smoke, glass, stain, bright colors. Image going down down down down. So green like a... No I never did give nothing to the tin man that he didn't already have. And cause never was the reason for the evening or the tropic of Sir Galahad. So please believe in me. I'm spinning round round round round. So please believe in me. Oh, Did you guys like my song? Yeah. Did anybody want to guess why I played that song today? All right, now you can see me right. Did you guys see some of you guys saw the screen when you logged in? You know what? You probably have no way of knowing why I played that song today, but you will by the time we're done with today's lecture. So how's everybody doing? You guys are good? Questions, comments about anything? Let me just, I'm going to share our canvas page here. Hopefully, I can find the right button. Okay. All right, now you guys see that? And we're going to go down to where we are in our course, which is here. And today we're going to be talking about the Gilded Age, which is already up on the screen here. I'll show you in a minute. But one of the things that you'll notice is that there's an assignment called Race and Society. And it was supposed to be due on Wednesday, but actually I've moved it. So now it's due on next Monday. Okay. So one of the things you can look at then is this is the, you guys see the syllabus there? This is the new syllabus. Okay. And basically what I did was I pushed everything out by one day. All right. So we're talking about the Gilded Age today. And then on next Monday, we're going to talk about this document that I put together. And it is going to give us a kind of an introduction into the topic of race. The reason why I put it here is because it contains work by W.E.B. Du Bois. And here's the actual document here. Okay. It contains work from the Souls of Black Folks, which was written by W.E.B. Du Bois around the turn of the 20th century. And he was a progressive and he was part of this progressive movement, even though we don't think about, generally, we don't think about race as being part of the progressive movement. But it really was part of this era of thinking about reform, which is going to be the result of what we're going to talk about today, the Gilded Age. Right. So you might notice that this has got a lot of pages, but it's not really that long because some of the pages have big writing on them like these. Right. So so don't be intimidated by all the reading. It's three chapters out of that one book and then a couple of other things in there that I think you'll find very interesting. Now, the way I want you to approach this, if you actually follow the instructions, you would end up doing a lot more work than I want you to do. But I want you to follow the instructions on the assignment here. Right. Hello. Yeah, I want you to I want you to follow the instructions on the assignment. And says for this assignment, you do not need to do historical exercise. Exercise number one, nor provide citations for your answers. The answer should be based on the assigned material. So I assigned these materials. And what I want you to do is answer these questions. Right here. Just the questions on page three and four. Okay. And then talk about those on Monday. All right. All right. Any questions or comments about that? You guys know what to do. Please follow the instructions in the assignment and not in the document, because otherwise you're going to end up doing a lot more work than I want you to do right now. You're going to do that kind of work, but not right now. Okay. Questions, comments. Because you're all good. Everybody came in late there. You said we're not doing the four. We're doing the questions on page three and four. Okay. That's it. We're not doing the historical. We're not going to do this analysis of every document and you're not going to have to give me citations. Just answer the questions. Okay. That's all you need to do. Okay. Any other questions, comments? All right. So we're going to talk then today about the Gilded Age. And we're going to kind of catch up in terms of the narrative. Do you guys see my slide set there? Yeah. Okay. All right. So we're going to catch up on the narrative. The overall picture here of what happens is arising out of the Industrial Revolution. And we noticed that when the Industrial Revolution occurred, it was accompanied by an era of social upheaval caused by the exploitation of workers and division of labor. Right. So what we're going to see is how that actually plays out in American life. And then we're going to on Wednesday, we'll be looking at how Americans respond to these challenges that were brought about from industrialization. And we'll see that Americans weigh in on the challenges that we're facing. And we'll see that Americans are going to be able to respond to these challenges. Okay. So that's kind of where we're going right now. Does anybody know what Gilded means? It is essentially like a facade. Right. That's what I've at least learned. It's like a facade. It's like, you know, how, you know, how the Gilded Age is actually going to be a part of the Gilded Age. Right. That's what I've at least learned. It's like a facade. It's like, you know, how school desks are made of like sawdust, but they have that nice top. Right. That's kind of how I've seen it described is that it looks nice on the outside, but it's really rotten and corrupt on the inside. Well, it's less than it appears to be. Not necessarily rotten and corrupt. You're right. So Gilded actually means like, there used to be a way of making furniture. You can make the furniture out of cheap wood, and then you could paint it with gold paint. And that would make it look like it was worth a lot of money. Right. So, so you're right. It has this, this appearance of being worth more than it actually is, or of hiding it's kind of less attractive under reality. So, you know, I think that's the kind of thing that's really important to us. And it makes sense. I think that is pretty much what you said, Vernon. So, so when we talk about the Gilded Age, One of the things we're going to notice is that this is an age of, of. Rapid industrialization. It's an age of. Which it's an age where some people are going to gain. Incredible amounts of way of wealth. And I think that's one of the things that's really important to us. Is that there is going to be a, there's going to be a wealth of, there there's going to these people. Who are the capitalists in, in the United States and other places. Are actually going to acquire more wealth than the emperor of China. But at the same time, there's going to be. You know, labor exploitation and, and extreme poverty. Among the working classes. And I think that's one of the things that we're going to notice. Is that there's going to be a wealth of. In this drawing. It's kind of a. It's kind of a. Political cartoon from that period of time. Where it shows the millionaires up here, writing on this kind of raft. Being supported by all the workers and they have. All have millions, but the workers are living on $3 a week or $11 a week. All right. Questions, comments. Okay. So now. We're going to move on to the next slide. So we're going to look at politics. And that's one of the things that we haven't really looked at very much. In this course yet. So we're going to, we're going to kind of come up to date on politics in the late 19th century. After the civil war. And the first thing that we need to. The first thing that we need to. To consider. Is the national government. So the national government. Okay. So everybody in the United States knew there was a national government. But if we, if you were to ask somebody, what, what's your government? What do you, when I say the government, what do you think I mean? They would have said the city government or the county government or the state government. But they would not have considered. The national government, like we do today. If I say, tell me what's going on in government, then you guys will start telling me what's going on in Congress. I mean, High Court government isn't that good of a thing. I mean, you've got to be someone that doesn't know anything about, you know, something like that. Spring court. And for probably not even. Know very much about, about local government. Like for example, how many of you guys know who would is the mayor of San Diego? A few of you, but not, not all of you. Right. And how many of you guys know who your city council representative is. So when you think about the government, we always think big, right? We know who the governor is, mostly because a lot of people don't like him, but we don't know who our own congressman is, things like that, right? So the point anyway that I'm trying to make here is that for these people, it would have been the other way around. They would have known very much who their local representatives were, who the mayor was, they would have been big in their lives. And the people that were in Washington were far away. It really had almost nothing to do with me, okay? And so that is actually going to remain until probably, it starts to change in World War I, but it changes in a big way during the Great Depression. So we'll be talking about that in a couple of weeks. But the main thing is here to understand that for most people, national politics wasn't an issue. And this era in national politics was also an era where a lot of things, where there wasn't a lot of big issues like there had been before the Civil War, because before the Civil War, there was the issue of, did states have the right to succeed? There was the issue of, did states have to obey federal law? There was the issue of, what is the relationship between the states and the federal government? There was the issue of slavery and the legality of slavery and property ownership and those sorts of things were big in the American consciousness before the Civil War. After the Civil War, those things are settled mostly. And so this era doesn't have the big issues that happened before, but there were still issues. And the three main issues of the time that were dealt with on a national level were these three, patronage, money, and the tariff. So now I'm gonna give you a kind of a rundown on each of these and usually I could draw this on the board, but I can't do it because I don't have a board. So you're just gonna have to kind of listen and think about it. You're gonna have to kind of listen and think about what I'm saying. So patronage means political favors in return for political support. And so that's the definition, political favor in return for political support. And the political favors would be jobs, essentially, and the political support would be votes. Okay, so now one place where we can see, this is big in American politics and it goes all the way back to the 1820s and the formation of the Democratic Party, what we really see is that certain people are able to organize the vote. When the franchise was expanded and more and more people were able to vote, what happened was that people were able to organize that vote into voting blocks. So the people that could do that on a city level, let's say, would be people who could organize votes for city government. So let's say then that a certain person is the chief of police and if you deliver the votes for the chief of police, then you get to control all the police jobs, right? And so to kind of give you an example of that, how many of you guys have seen Bugs Bunny cartoons? Do you like Bugs Bunny cartoons? Okay, now did you ever notice that in a Bugs Bunny cartoon if there's a cop, he always has a certain accent? Does anybody know what that accent is? Think about it for a minute. Isn't it Irish? Yeah, it's Irish. So the question we wanna ask ourselves is, I gotta stop this share for a second here. The question that we wanna ask ourselves is, why do the cops on Bugs Bunny speak with Irish accent? So you thought this class was gonna be a waste of time, but you're gonna see here that you're gonna learn why cops on Bugs Bunny speak with Irish accents. Now, do you guys see the screen? I can't see it now. Yeah, okay. Let's just watch this here. Oh my gosh. Okay, Clancy, take the boys and surround the house. Jiggers, fellas, the cops. Open up, this is the place. All right, Rabbit, where's Rocky? Where's he hiding? He's not in this stove. Oh, he's hiding in the stove, eh? Would I turn on the gas if he was in there? You might, Rabbit, you might. You might, Rabbit, you might. Well, would I throw a light at matching there if he was in there? Oh, no, you don't! Take me with you. Don't take me with you, Rabbit. I confess, I did it, I did it. Arrest me, arrest me! All right. What do you guys think? Very funny. So, how do I get out of this thing here? Oh, I'm eating. No, that's not it. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's not what I want. There we go. Let me go back in. All right, okay. Let me just, I gotta do something here. I have to turn off this button so that I can see all you guys. All right, okay. Now you see, oh, you don't see anything yet. Can you see the screen now? Yes. Okay. So, there we have this demonstration of the cop with an Irish accent, which everybody knows that cops have an Irish accent. Well, why? And the reason why is because during this period of time, say the 1840s or after, right? There was an immigration of people from Ireland, okay? And when people from Ireland would come to America, they would be looking for work. And so they go to an American city like New York or Boston or someplace like that. And there would be a person running what's called the hiring hall, right? And the hiring hall would be a place where you would go looking for a job. And if you were Irish, the person running the hiring hall was the guy who delivered the votes for the chief of police, right? So what would happen then is that he would give you a job as a policeman and your job as a policeman would be to be a policeman for 364 days of the year. But on election day, your job was to make sure that everybody got out and voted early and often, right? To ensure that the person who was running for chief of police was your guy who was gonna win, right? So that was the political favor. So the political favor was this person at the hiring hall called the boss, not like on Super Mario Brothers or something like that, but the boss was the guy who controlled the jobs and he delivered the votes. So the reason why he got to control the jobs was because he delivered the votes, okay? So that's political favor in return for political support. You guys got that? Okay, so now, and that means that the people who get their jobs from the boss are going to be very loyal to the person who they're electing because their jobs depend on that guy staying in office because if somebody else wins, then another boss will get the opportunity to appoint the workers, right? You get what I'm saying? So then that's gonna be the, I guess you could say the upside of the patronage system is that it creates loyalty in the structure, but it has a downside too. And what do you think that downside is? Favotism. I'm sorry? Rapid corruption. Corruption, right, favoritism and corruption essentially the same thing, right? What that means is that essentially you're going to make sure it's kind of like saying with 147% of the vote counted, we have a winner. You see what I'm saying, right? So it's not real democracy, it's real corruption. And it gets worse and worse as time goes by in American politics so that there's going to be a movement for what we call civil service reform. And civil service means government jobs essentially, and civil service reform would be to take it out of the hands of the bosses and put it into a professional environment. So then a policeman would become a policeman because he was trained to be a policeman and had been qualified to become a policeman rather than just because he was in with the boss. You follow what I'm saying? And that works at every level of government. So you can see that, for example, if the police in theory are all trained policemen, then they're more likely to be better policemen. And we don't have a different policeman every time we change, some politician changes office, right, same thing with let's say foreign policy. We go to the federal level, we look at foreign policy. If we have somebody that's serving in the State Department, people in the State Department are all put there by somebody who has a certain foreign policy, then they're going to enact that. But then when the next president comes in, then if all those people change, then we're gonna have a different foreign policy or it'll be chaotic, right? So patronage then leads to government instability and corruption. And the answer to that is going to be civil service reform. So that's one of the things that we're gonna be seeing happening during this period of time, okay? Questions, comments? All right, next one, the money. Okay, the money issue. We have to think about, okay, the United States in its formative years was vying to be a competitor of the British Empire. And in order to be a competitor of the British Empire, you had to essentially be on the same money standard as the British Empire. And the British Empire was on the gold standard. And what that means is that the amount of wealth that is in the economy is equal to the amount of gold that's in the economy. So one thing we wanna say then is that, in terms of American money, right? If we're on the gold standard, that means a dollar bill is equal to a dollar's worth of gold, all right? You guys get that? A dollar bill is worth a dollar's worth of gold, all right? But now what happens is during the Civil War, the United States, the Union government goes off the gold standard. And the reason why is because they need to pay for the war. And the way that they do that is they just start to print money, okay? So that works at first, but in the end, what we see happening is what? Does anybody know what happens when you don't increase the amount of wealth you've got, but you just keep printing more money? What happens? Inflation. Inflation, exactly. So let's say, and this is just a number. It's not a real number, it's just a number to demonstrate, okay? Let's say that at the beginning of the Civil War, you had a dollar and that dollar was worth a dollar's worth of gold, right? But during the Civil War, the value of that dollar decreased 10 times, right? So then by the end of the Civil War, it takes $10 to buy $1 worth of gold. You follow what I'm saying here? Okay, now think about this. If you're a farmer, or industry does this too, but a farmer's gonna be the hardest hit by this, right? If you're a farmer, the way that you do farming is that at the beginning of the season, you borrow money from the bank. And with this money that you borrowed from the bank, you buy your seed and your equipment and the things that you're gonna need during the growing season. And then at harvest time, you harvest all your crops and you sell them. And then out of the money that you get from selling your crops, you pay back the loan from the beginning of the year. And then everything left over is your profit. You get how that works? But here's the problem. The problem is if you're a farmer and you borrow money, so you borrow a dollar, let's say it this way. Let's say you borrow $10, or let's get even more further. Let's say you borrow $1,000 in order to, excuse me, $100. You borrow $100 to get you through the summer through the growing season. But because of inflation, by the time you get to the end of the summer, instead of owing $100, you owe $1,000 just to make up the same amount of value. You get what I'm saying? So what that means then is that if you go from the gold stand, from the, this is the essentially, it's called soft money or the greenback. It's called the greenback, right? Why? Because American currency is backed only by the green on the back of it, right? Okay, if you go from the soft money back to the gold standard or back to the hard money, then all of a sudden you're gonna owe 10 times more than you borrowed. You follow what I'm saying? Okay, and that was the issue. The issue was after the Civil War, people wanted to go back, especially commercial interests wanted to go back to the gold standard so that would make them more competitive with the British. But the idea of going directly from the, from soft money or the gold or from the greenbacks to hard money would have impoverished almost everybody that had borrowed money. You get what I'm saying? And so this becomes a big issue. Are we going to go back to the gold standard or not? And if not, how, or if so, how are we going to do it? So that's a big issue as well. All right, questions, comments? Did you guys get that? I know I'm not the greatest explainer of economic things in the world, but all right. So the last one is the tariff. The tariff is a tax on imports, okay? So this has been a huge issue in American politics from the very beginning because the North wanted high tariffs because that would make their products more competitive and that to begin right after the American Revolution, the situation was that you could buy goods from England at a better quality than American goods than you could buy from American manufacturers. So to make up for that, the American manufacturers wanted to erect tariff barriers to make their products look more appealing by the price, okay? And that actually worked, okay? But it was harmful to the economy of the South because the South relied on export agriculture, which meant that if the United States raises taxes on imports from Britain, the British are buying the main product that the South has to sell to the British is cotton, the British are gonna also raise their tariffs, right? So raising tariffs on British imports in America will result in raising tariffs on American exports to Britain, you follow what I'm saying? So that means if you're a plantation owner, you're not gonna be able to make as much money because you gotta pay higher tariffs, okay? And then on top of that, there's the issue that if you are living in an agrarian society like the South, you're not manufacturing things. That means you have to import manufactured goods. And if everything that you import has a tariff on it, that means you're paying a lot more for it, you see what I'm saying? So that means then the tariff is actually gonna be good for commerce and industry, but it's gonna be very bad for farmers, essentially, particularly for plantation owners. Okay, so these are the three issues. The three issues are patronage, which includes civil service reform, money, which includes hard and soft money or the gold standard, and then finally the tariff, are we gonna have high tariffs or low tariffs, right? And we can see that different groups benefit from, but also are harmed by all three of these different policies. You guys get what I'm saying? Questions, comments? All right, let's talk about the parties. Okay, I'm talking about political parties, not the thing that you guys wish you could do nowadays on the weekends, but all right. So now ever since basically right before the Civil War, 1854, we've had two parties, the Republican Party and the Democrat Party, Democratic Party, right? Republican Party started in 1854. It was the party of the free soil. Free soilers were people from, mostly from New York, who said that they would not oppose slavery, but they would not allow it to advance. So they said every all territory that's added to the United States should be free, and that's why they call them free soilers, right? But they were also joined by the Northern Whigs who were kind of a continuation of the original Federalist Party in New England. And these were the parties of commerce and industry. So on the one hand, we could say that the Republican Party when it was formed was the party of big business, right? Because they were the ones who were representing the business interests, particularly in the North, but they were also the socially liberal party because they were actually opposed to slavery. Now in reality, their policy was the opposition of the expansion of slavery, right? But from the point of view of the South, of the slave owners, they saw this as a real threat because if you could, their position was the federal government couldn't legislate on slavery at all because slaves were property, right? But at any rate, the point here then is that before when the Republican Party was first founded, it was the party of big business, and it was also the socially liberal party, okay? You guys with me, questions, comments? All right, then the Democratic Party really goes back to Andrew Jackson, right, 1820s, okay? And it was the party of the people. It was, you know, Andrew Jackson was really the first populist president in the United States, but the Democratic Party was also a conservative party. It was socially conservative, right? Meaning that they stood for so-called traditional values, right, okay, so what happens is in the 19th century, in 1912, Woodrow Wilson will be elected president. Woodrow Wilson is a Democrat, but he's also a progressive. Progressive is what we can think of as a liberal, right, at this time, all right, so Woodrow Wilson, when Woodrow Wilson, when he ran for president, he ran as the leader of the party of the people, but he also ran as a liberal, a social liberal or a progressive, right? And so when he becomes president, we see a switch in the alignment of the two parties, right? That after the election of Wilson, Republicans will become the party of big business, but they're also the party, the conservative party, and they'll become more and more so as the century goes on. The Democrats then will become the party of the people and the socially liberal party, which is kind of what we have today, right? Well, why is it so important for us to know this? Well, the reason why is because if you pay attention to American politics and all of the misinformation and disinformation that's out there, you will hear people say, well, it's actually Democrats who are racist because they were the ones who were the slave owners, and it's actually Republicans who are not racist because they were the ones who freed the slaves, right? But you have to remember when did this happen? It happened in the 1860s, 1870s. At that time, the Democratic party was the conservative party, and the Republicans were the party. You guys get what I'm saying? And then that switches. So now when we say that the Republicans freed the slaves, yeah, that's true, but not today's Republicans, right? And when we say that the Democrats were the enslavers, we can say, yeah, that's true, but not today's Democrats. You guys get what I'm saying? So there's a shift in the party, and you have to understand that. A Republican in 1865 would not be considered a Republican today, okay? You get what I'm saying? All right, and then there's one other thing that I want you guys to notice, and that is the sentiment in the South that was embodied in the Democratic party was based on, founded on the idea of white supremacy, right? So when we see the secession of the South, most of the politicians in the South at that time were Democrats. They were not driven by kind of the ideals of the National Democratic Party, because the National Democratic Party was split in the Civil War, right? But they were driven by the ideas of white supremacy. And then after the Civil War, these same politicians essentially were returned to power under the new union. And so we see this continuation of white supremacy, we'll talk more about that, I guess, next week, right? We see this continuation of white supremacy in the South in the Democratic party. So in that way, the Democratic party in the South is actually disconnected from the National Democratic Party, okay? But what will happen is that in the 18, excuse me, 1940s, 50s, and 60s, the Democratic party will take up the mantle of civil rights. And as that happens, Southern Democrats are going to be more and more disenchanted with the Democratic party. And so there's going to be, what you'll notice is that the Republican party starts to grow in the South as the Democratic party diminishes, which is why generally speaking for the last 50 years, the Democratic party, the Southern states have been solid red, Republican states. And the reason for that is because of, or I guess you could say it's demonstrated in the politics of Richard Nixon. When Richard Nixon ran, he ran on the Southern strategy, which was to appeal to racism, to appeal to white supremacists in the South, saying, look, I'm a white supremacist like you, right? He didn't say it out loud, but that was the message that he sent. And that caused the South to go Republican. So the point then that I'm making is that the white supremacist party in the South has changed its name over the years, but it's the same party, okay? Now, I'm not saying every Republican from the South is a white supremacist, but I am saying that that sentiment of white supremacy shifted from the Democratic to the Republican party in the South. Does that make sense to you guys? Questions, comments? All right, so just so that it's, I guess you could say a kind of a, in a nutshell of the two-party system in the United States. All right, questions, comments about this? And it's important for us to know it, again, because a lot of people will be trying to, you know, make historical references that aren't appropriate in terms of Democrats and Republicans, all right? Questions, comments? Okay, all right, now, the Republicans were divided and the Democrats were divided, okay? So in this period of time, the Republicans are divided between the progressives, essentially, and the conservatives. They actually call themselves the mugwumps and the stalwarts, okay? So now, a mugwump is an Indian word, and I'm not sure exactly what it means, but the way that they used it was that a mugwump was somebody who had his mug on one side of the fence and his wump on the other, okay? And what that means is somebody who doesn't stand for anything, that his politics are essentially driven by what everybody wants, okay? And then the stalwarts were the ones who stood for Republican values, whatever that means, okay? And so we see the Republican party divided. We also see the Democratic party divided between the traditional Democrats in the North and in the West who were the immigrants and the factory workers and labor and things like that, whereas in the farmers, right, whereas in the South, it was basically just the white supremacists, right? Okay, so we see this split in the party system, but let's just think for a minute, in terms of the issues, who would be in favor of what, all right? So the issue in patronage is civil service. Should patronage be ended and have government service be in the hands of qualified people, or should we leave it in the old patronage system? Who would be in favor of keeping the patronage system? Republicans or Democrats? Republicans? Why? Helped big business? Okay, that would be true. Go ahead. Somebody else said something. Okay, well, yeah, that's true. And I think that the Republicans were in favor of patronage, but were Democrats in favor of patronage too? Think about this picture right here. This is a demo, right? Do you think they're in favor of patronage? Yeah, I'd say so, because the Democrats, they're getting the same response Yeah, I'd say so, because the Democrats, they're getting jobs, and that's what people wanted, right? Jobs. Right. Okay, so basically when this, it was kind of a trick question, because both parties were actually in favor of patronage because both parties benefited from it, right? But there were groups that were outside the two parties, it was called the populist party at first, and it becomes a progressive party, that were against this because of the corruption that it brought about, okay? So in this case, both Republicans and Democrats supported the idea of patronage, not that they openly supported it, but they were reluctant to support civil service reform, okay? Now, in terms of money, hard money is helpful to who? People in the North? What economic class of people? You're right, but yeah, what economic class? Were they the upper class, were they the business interests, or were they the farmers? Were they the business interests or the? Oh, the business. Business. Right, so it was, it favored the business interests and it hurt the farmers, right? So who do you think was gonna be in favor of hard money, Republicans or Democrats? Republican. Definitely Republican. And the Democrats were against it because of the same reason, right? Okay, and then the tariff, who does it help? Big business, Republicans? Big business, exactly. So because of that, who will be in favor of high tariffs? Republicans. Republicans, right? And then who will be against it? Democrats. You guys get what I'm saying? Okay, so that's kinda how the different issues were handled by the party system in the United States. The one thing is that there was also at this time a number of third parties, third parties don't really ever make it very well in the United States for a number of reasons, but there was a National Prohibition Party who were in favor of prohibition of drinking and the Greenback Party in favor of greenbacks and Populist Party in favor of populism. All right, questions, comments about any of that? Okay, so now during this period of time, and I haven't actually mentioned the presidents, right? But during this period of time, we see going back to the Civil War, right? We have Lincoln assassinated at the end of the Civil War, then Andrew Johnson was really a Democrat and he was essentially ineffective. And then we had Ulysses S. Grant. Ulysses S. Grant was a Republican, but his administration was also corrupt. It doesn't mean he was corrupt, but it was probably one of the most corrupt administrations in American history. Then he's followed by Hayes and then Cleveland and a number of different presidents who are, there's gonna be, Cleveland was a Democrat, McKinley was a Republican, but the point here is that by the time we get to the end of the 19th century, you can think about American politics in terms of the Wizard of Oz, right? And some people actually say that the Wizard of Oz was written as a parable for American politics. I think that's probably not true, but you can make these connections, right? So during this Gilded Age, as I've already mentioned to you, rapid economic growth, shift from agriculture to industry, massive income inequality, right? Which leads to a lot of social upheaval. And then we look at the characters in the Wizard of Oz. We have the scarecrow who represents the farmers and the tin man who represents industrial workers. And then there's the cowardly lion, William Jennings Bryan was a huge political influence during this time. And then there's the Democrat, also a populist. And he ran for president like 10 times, I think something like that. Never became president, but you're gonna see more about him coming up later, right? Mostly known for his oratory. Dorothy is the populist party, the party that's trying to do away with these excesses of the industrial revolution. And then the wicked witch of the East is gonna be the industrial, Eastern industrialists and the wicked witch of the West, sorry, wicked witch of the West is the railroads. And in the Emerald City is Washington. You can imagine why it would be called Washington, right? And the wizard is President McKinley, all right? You guys get what I'm saying? Questions, comments? It kind of helps you remember kind of the divisions that happened at this time. The big question is who's Toto? All right, well, anyway. All right, so now let's move a little bit further in, oh, here's where I have my presidents and I'm not gonna really go into it too much. This is actually very important, but we're gonna talk about this on a different day. We'll talk about this on Monday, all right? Yeah, next Monday. All right, so we're gonna start right here with the farmer's discontent. Now here's the problem. The problem is that the United States is industrializing and as the United States industrializes, the American economy is going to become more enmeshed in the world economy. And so the farmers in America are going to go from being from producing for American consumption to competing with farmers in other countries like Mexico, Argentina, places like that, right? And their response is going to be to produce more, okay? So here's where the problem really is and think about what I told you a few minutes ago, how farming works, okay? So you start at the beginning of the season, you borrow money and then you go out and you plant your crops and you wait until harvest time and you take the harvested crops down to the rail head and you sell them and you get your money and the money pays off the loan and then whatever's left over is your profit. And that's how farming works, okay? But because of the industrialization of the United States, the prices for farm goods are going to continue to fall, right? So what will happen then is at the beginning of the season, a farmer goes out and borrows money and he waits through the growing season and he harvests his crops, goes down to sell them at the railroad and he can't get as much money for his crops as he actually borrowed. So he goes into debt. But the next year he has to go back into, he needs to borrow money again. So he borrows more money and he plants more crops. He says, okay, I'm gonna plant more crops this year because that way I can get enough money but because he plants more crops, the prices continue to go down. So that year when he goes to harvest his crops, when he goes to sell his harvest, he gets even less money, right? More money, more crops and less money. And so it becomes a spiral of going deeper and deeper and deeper in debt, okay? And I have to tell you right now that single family farming in the United States, is it dies essentially, right? There are still single family farmers, a few of them but that's not where most of our farming is done. Most of our farming is industrialized, right? And people who are single family farmers are generally already wealthy. They don't need to make money, okay? So the response of the farmers to try to maintain this farming economy is going to be doomed to fail because of industrialization, okay? And in reality, the problems that they're experiencing are the result of industrialization but they don't see it that way. They see it as the railroads. And the reason why they say it's the railroad is because every year when they go down to sell their crops they got to pay more and more to the railroads, right? And so they're going to say, well, we need to regulate the railroads and they'll have some success at that. For example, they can pass a law in Illinois that says that the railroads can't charge more than a certain amount to move goods in Illinois. But if they're going to sell their crops in New York that means they're going to cross Indiana and Ohio as well as Pennsylvania, as well as Illinois, right? So the railroads can charge whatever the regulated price is in Illinois but then they can jack the price up in Indiana, right? So the farmers aren't any better off and they realize that they can't use local government to fix their problems. So they come together and form a party that will address it at the national level. Their idea is to address these issues at the national level, all right? And so in 1892, they will actually form a political party, a third party called the Populist Party and their platform is going to be popular election of US senators. I'm gonna go through the list and I'll talk about each one. Population, popular election of US senators, graduated income tax, public ownership of railroads and silver to gold ratio of 16 to one, all right? So let's talk about these things one at a time. But let's start with the silver gold ratio of 16 to one. This is an answer, a problem of money. Remember, what was the problem of money? What was the issue that they were arguing about? Overprinting and inflation. Inflation, right. And the short of it. So what happened was that certain people wanted to go back to gold standard and other people wanted to stay on the greenback or the soft money standard, right? But what was the real issue of going to the gold standard? Maybe not having enough or if it wasn't worth of it across the nation could be different. Well, exactly. So what happens is they've only got so much gold, right? And since they've only got so much gold, that means that the amount of currency in circulation is limited to how much gold they've got. You guys get what I'm saying? So there is a push in the late 19th century for what's called bimetallism. And the idea behind bimetallism is that if the United States bought a lot of silver, because there's more silver, right? And if you bought silver at the rate of 16 ounces of silver to one ounce of gold, you would have more species, that's what they call the actual rocks, right? If you go to Fort Knox and there's actually piles of gold there, right? Real gold, then that's the species, right? And if you have all that gold plus 16 times more silver, right? Then you have more species, which means that you can have more what? More currency? More currency, exactly. So the idea of buying up this, buying silver and which they will, call the silver purchase after, right? We'll talk about it on Wednesday. But the idea behind buying all this silver is to increase the amount of currency and circulation, which will make it easier, theoretically, to buy things. We'll just leave it at that for now. Okay, but one thing that's interesting coming off of talking about the Wizard of Oz is that you know that Dorothy had what kind of slippers? Ruby slippers. But in the book, the slippers were silver, right? And what was the road that they went on? What did they call it? Yellow brick. The yellow brick road. So what do you think that represents? Gold, right? So that's bimetallism, the idea of bimetallism. So you can see this progressive idea in the Wizard of Oz. But anyway, so that's bimetallism. Popular election of US senators, the constitution doesn't, leaves it up to the states how US senators will be elected, okay, originally. And what that meant was that US senators were either appointed by the governor or they were elected by, or they were appointed by the legislature. But what that does is it creates a, they end up calling the Senate a millionaire's club because it ends up being people who have influence in state politics rather than people that are out to help the people, right? Okay, so the populist party says, well, we shouldn't have that anymore. Instead, what we should have is that the elect, the senators will be elected by the people and that way they'll be answerable to the people, okay? So that's one of the, that's one of the goals of the populist party, right? And then the next one is public ownership of railroads. I know I'm taking these out of order, right? But public ownership of railroads, the idea is that if the government, that means the public, if the government owns the railroads, they can set the prices everywhere. Whereas if the railroads are owned by these fat cat capitalists, then they can set whatever prices they want or they can get together and set prices, right? Okay, so that's the idea behind the public ownership of railroads, but there's a huge problem with that in the United States. What do you think that is? Even though it's public, it's probably run by big businesses or rich white people, so it's not really the public. Is it or no? Well, no, I mean, that's a good guess, but that's not really it. If you think about, if the public owns the railroads, who's the public? The people? Us, we're the public, right? So if we all own the railroads together, that means we all own the railroads in common, right? So what happens when everybody owns everything in common? What do you call that? Public property? Hmm, no. I mean, yeah, it is public property, but it is called common. Commonwealth? Communism. Communism. Communism, right? And Americans don't like communism. Americans hate communism. All the way through, even with all of the social upheaval that's caused by industrialization, Americans will never think of communism as being a good solution, because Americans always believe that they might end up being wealthy someday, right? There was actually a Canadian scholar who remarked about Americans, that Americans, socialism or communism, essentially the same thing, right? Never took off in America because American doesn't have any poor people. It only has temporarily distressed millionaires. And what that means is that even though I might not, I might not be rich now, I can get rich. It could happen for me. And if I'm rich, I don't wanna be sharing all my stuff with everybody else, right? The only time sharing everything seems like a good idea is when you don't have anything, right? But if you have something, you don't wanna share it. It's like, if you have a car and I don't have a car, I think you should lend me your car. But if I have a car and you don't have a car, I think you should get your own car. You follow what I'm saying? So you get what I'm saying. So Americans don't like communism and public ownership of railroads would be socialism or communism, right? And so that's not something that Americans are ever going to be really to take seriously, all right? And then finally, the graduated income tax, the idea behind the graduated income tax is that the more you make, the more you pay. It's a different rate based on income. And that is what we have today, but Americans are still not gonna like it. And why do Americans not like the graduated income tax? Let's say, because I'm an adjunct professor and I'm retired, so I don't even make enough money to pay income tax, right? And there's somebody like, say, what's his name that runs Amazon? I forgot his name. Jeff Bezos. Yeah, Jeff Bezos, right? And he's making something like $50,000 an hour, right? And he has to spend it or he has to spend something like $28,000 a day in order to keep from making more money. Right? Okay, so wouldn't it make sense that, because I don't make any money and he makes all that money, and he should pay more taxes than me, right? You guys get what I'm saying? Does that make sense? What's the problem with that? Because how are you gonna measure what bracket is what and how are you gonna set the standard for each tax bracket? Well, you're right about that. It's even more fundamental than that though, right? Because what happens with taxes? What are taxes for? For the government to accumulate money to spend as they see fit. Okay, but what is it in theory? What are they spending it on? Us. They're spending it on the public benefit, right? So essentially the government collects taxes to spend on for the benefit of the people, right? In defense and infrastructure, healthcare, education, things like that, right? Okay, so now who benefits from the government services are paid for with taxes? You asked who benefits from government taxes? Who benefits from the government services? The people. Everybody, right? Everybody benefits. I mean, you don't have to pay an extra, you don't have to be a certain class of people to drive on the road. Everybody can drive on the road, right? You see what I'm saying? Okay, but what that means is that it costs money to build that road and I didn't pay into it because I don't pay any taxes. So only the rich people pay into it. So what we see happening then is that we see a transfer of wealth from those who have the money to those who don't have the money. Income redistribution basically is what it's called, right? Okay, and so if I'm a rich person, I would say, well, why should I pay for a road that Dr. Cox drives on? That's crazy. Why would I wanna do that, right? Let him pay for his own road. You follow what I'm saying, right? And that's why Americans don't like this, this graduated income tax because it's income redistribution, which is socialism, right? Questions, comments? Yeah, I was gonna say, isn't that like, it's kind of like a loophole when people go to jail for tax evasion because you're going to jail for not paying taxes and then you go to jail and you're living off taxpayer money. So it's like, that really doesn't like, that's kind of like a loophole in my opinion. So I think that is like socialism, like you just said. Yeah, well, I think that people would rather live outside of prison than in. That's not true for everybody, but most people. True, true, but when you do go to jail for evading taxes, you go to jail to live off other people's taxes. Like just like in theory, like- Well, you know, people who go to jail for evading taxes generally will have to pay up all their wealth. The government will confiscate it. True, true. So let me just, I'm gonna start this conversation now and we'll continue it as we go through the course, right? But when in the United States, there's, or we Americans think of the economy in terms of capitalism and socialism, a free markets versus public ownership, right? And in our minds, there's a solid line that divides the two. Okay, but the reality is that there is no such thing as a free market, okay? And that the United States in some ways is already socialist just like I described to you, right? That not everybody pays the same amount of tax but everybody gets to ride on the road, right? Not everybody pays the same amount of tax, but everybody gets protection from the fire department. Everybody gets protection from the military, right? You get what I'm saying? Is that like welfare too? Well, I mean, welfare would be part of it, yeah. But the point that I'm trying to make here is that there's already built into the American system, socialist ideas, right? So the question really isn't, is it capitalism or missocialism? It's really how much socialism, right? And that's really what divides economically, what divides Republicans and Democrats, not that whether the government should have control over the economy, but how much, right? You see what I'm saying? Republicans say less and Democrats say more, but they're all arguing about the same thing. So nobody in their right mind would say, okay, we're gonna stop collecting taxes and the government won't make anything for us anymore. Can you imagine that? Can you imagine somebody saying, okay, we're not gonna pay any more taxes, but we're not gonna pay for roads, we're not gonna have a military, we're not gonna... You get what I'm saying? So there's nobody that's actually arguing in favor of a complete total free market, laissez faire, right? If you think about it, it's just, most of it's just rhetoric. We're just arguing about how much, okay? Questions, comments? No, thank you for explaining. Any questions or comments about anything? Okay, well, I hope you get started on the reading. I think that you'll find it to be enlightening, although Du Bois can be a little difficult. I think he's one that you either really like him or you really don't like him. But I actually am quite taken with his rhetoric. So at any rate, hopefully you'll be working on that. And then make sure you follow the instructions on the assignment and not in the actual document. And I'll see you guys on Wednesday. Professor. Live long, professor. Yes. I'm leaving to travel on the 20th. All right, thank you. And I know we have a zoom in. So I don't know if... I can't really, I can't really hear you. I'm sorry. Can you hear me now? Well, it's not that you're not loud enough. It's that there's a lot of... Oh, sorry. All right, now let's give it a shot now. So I'm leaving to go travel on the 28th and my flight happens to be like 12 or 13 hours. So I don't know if I'll make it in time for our zoom on Monday. So I'm just letting you know, I might be absent for that one zoom class on the 1st of March. I don't know if you can pass. No. You know, there will be a recording of the session because I finally figured out how to make sure I got the recording going on. Yeah, for sure. I wouldn't worry about it too much, but I do want you to do the reading and I do want you to turn everything out on time. I plan on getting assignments in no time. It's just like I physically won't be able to open my laptop. All right. Okay, thank you. Okay. Is that it then? You guys are all right? Yes, for me, professor, thank you. All right, I hope you guys have a good rest of the week. I'll see you on Wednesday. Bye, professor. Live long and prosper. Live long and prosper. Thank you.