Okay. The second, the last one has to do really with economics, right? And I want to do, I want to spend a little bit of time here talking about economics. And the way I'm going to do it is I'm going to work on a diagram. Okay? So what we're going to do is we're going to push this x, right? And this diagram, actually, I don't know what all this is. What is that? Okay, so. Oh, crap. Sorry about that. Okay, so now here, what happens with this, this theory. The theory is called dependency theory. Okay, let me just put that up here. And the reason why. We'll talk about it in a minute. Why it's called dependency theory, okay? But what it does is it explains the relationship between the governed and, or I should say, really the colonizers and the colonized, all right? And what the theory is, is that you divide the world up into two groups of countries. And the two groups of countries, we're going to call them the metropolis and the periphery, okay? So the metropolis is all the industrialized countries. Metropolis is the modernized countries. They'll be like Britain, United States, France, Belgium. Those. The periphery is going to be the countries that are colonized, okay? Like Cuba, for example, or Puerto Rico or the philippine islands or other countries. We'll talk more about that in just a second. Right? Okay, but the relationship between them is that the metropolis. I'll say it the other way around. Let's take this one here. And how do we do this? Oops. Yeah, there we go. We'll make this go over here. Right? Okay, so the periphery provides resources to the economy, the industrialized economy of the metropolis, right? So for example, the British in India. The British extract cotton from India to be used in the cotton mills in England, right? And then the metropolis also. Oh, crap. That's not what I wanted to do. Sorry about that, guys. The metropolis also uses the periphery for markets, right? So the, the periphery sends goods to the metropolis and those goods are manufactured, are converted into manufactured goods, and those manufactured goods are sold sometimes back to the periphery. So in the case of Britain, the Indians grow cotton and sell it to the British. British turn that cotton into textiles and sell those textiles back in India, right? And that's the, that's essentially the structure of imperialism for most of the european countries. Okay, questions? Comments about this? Okay, so the problem here, or I should say the situation here, ends up being that the reason why it's called dependency theory is because the economy of the metropolis is not dependent. It is to a certain extent, but not totally on the colony of the. On the economy of the periphery, because the metropolis can make all kinds of different goods, it has a diversified economy. So if, for example, the market goes out for cotton textiles and they can make railroads or they can make cars or something like that. In fact, what happened, one of the places where we could see this was in Brazil. Brazil had an economy that was based on the export of coffee, right? But during World War one, nobody could afford coffee. So the economy of Brazil tanked, right? Because nobody was buying their stuff. Because in the periphery, the peripheral countries only have one thing to sell, right? That's why they call it monostaple, right? So in the metropolis we have diversified economies, but in the periphery, we have monostaple economies, right? So that means then, like I said, if. Let's say we're in Brazil, right? Or let's say we're in Cuba. Let's say we're in Cuba and our export is sugar, right? But if the market for sugar falls away, then our whole economy will collapse, right? Whereas the metropolitan economy can still survive because they. They manufacture things that don't necessarily depend on sugar. Okay, that makes sense to you guys? Questions, comments about that? So it's dependency theory because the colonies are dependent on the metropolis for their economic well being. Okay, you guys got that? Questions? Comments? Okay, now let's think about, well, how do I. How does the metropolis maintain control over the colonized economy? And if we were looking at something like Britain and India, we would say, okay, well, the British actually, this is not what I want. Crap never works for me. Okay, well, the British directly rule. Let me just put that here. You could pretend that it's there. I have to fix this later, right, but the British directly rule India, right? Direct rule, meaning that parliament actually rules over. Over India. You know, India is called the jewel of the british crown, okay? And that's how they maintain control in India. They actually legislate for India. They control all aspects of indian society. Okay, but let's say, for example, the United States. The United States doesn't acquire overseas empires that they directly rule, right? For example, we're going to notice that during this period of time, the United States will have heavy influence on latin american countries. Like in Central America. They call them the banana republics, right? Because that's where they export tropical fruits from Nicaragua, Honduras, places like that. And the United States doesn't rule those countries, but the United States controls the economy, right? And that is going to be called economic imperialism, right? Economic imperialism. And what that means is, let me just write this down for you. Right? Imperialism. Okay, so what that means is that the peripheral country is nominally independent, but its economy is controlled by the metropolis. Okay. Necropolis. And imperial control is accomplished by military intervention. Okay, so let me give you how this. Let me show you how this works, right? So after the spanish american war, the United States actually eventually decided to annex Puerto Rico and the philippine islands, okay? But the United States couldn't annex Cuba because they had said that they wouldn't. Right? And so instead, what happened was they passed a law called the Platt Amendment. And what the Platt amendment said was that Cuba was independent, but that the United States could intervene if the government of Cuba acted in a way that was irresponsible. Okay. So the way Cuba becomes independent is that the United States frees it from the Spanish, but they also write a constitution for them. An american admiral actually writes the cuban constitution. And why do you think that is? Why do you think the Cubans couldn't write their own constitution? They probably didn't know how. Well, I think that the. I mean, there were people in Cuba, revolutionaries that were very well educated. It's not like they couldn't figure it out, but that. Because they were being ruled and stuff. You know what I mean? So they had a dictator for so long that they probably didn't know, like, what rights to give or what rules to have and stuff like that. Just like, generally speaking, not like literally every single one. Okay, I understand what you're saying, but really, that's a. That's a kind of a demonstration of the thinking of the Americans, because what the Americans thought was that they really aren't capable of ruling themselves. So we have to do it for them. And that's this paternalistic attitude, right, that we know how to do it. We're going to show you how to do it because you haven't been able to figure out how to do it your own. Right. Okay? So. So at any rate, you know, right? Constitution puts in place their government at the same time passes this law called the plot amendment. And what the plat amendment says is that if you act in a way that's irresponsible, if Cuba. If the cuban government acts in a way that's irresponsible, the United States can intervene militarily, can send troops, right? And that's what happens. So the United States will then intervene in many spanish american countries for the next two or three decades, essentially. Right? Whenever american economic interests were threatened, the United States would send in troops to make sure that american economic interests were secure. Okay, you guys follow me here. So that's economic imperialism. We don't really droop rule Cuba, but we get all the benefit of their economy. The benefit of economic imperialism is that the metropolis is no longer responsible for the well being of the peripheral country. So if India directly, if England was England directly ruled India, they were responsible for the defense of India, they were responsible for education, public health, for administration, railroads, infrastructure, all those different things, right? But if the United States just controls the economy of Cuba and all the rest of that stuff can be left to the Cubans how they want to do it, right? So the United States doesn't have to spend that kind of money and effort to do that. You follow what I'm saying? So that's the advantage of economic imperialism and american imperialism is going to be almost all economic imperialism, okay? And it's not just american imperialism that is economic. Other countries, Britain and France and Germany also accomplished it in different places, right? But it's going to be the standard, essentially for american imperialism.
