Well, he didn't keep us out forever. And here's what happens. The first thing is that. Well, first off, let me just talk about the kind of war that World War I is, and it's known as total war. What does total war mean? Total war means whole nations against whole nations. Okay. So the way that warfare had evolved through the centuries was that wars were fought by armies and that the civilian population was off limits unless they got in the way. Okay? So basically, then you have the two armies go out and they meet each other, and whichever army wins, wins the war, and the civilians are left out of it. And that was kind of an unwritten rule. It was actually broken in the American Civil War by William Tecumseh Sherman in his March to the Sea, when his idea was that if you wage war against civilians, that will prevent them from being able to support the troops, and that will end the war sooner. And so you can see then that when Sherman was marching to the sea, he was destroying plantations, he was destroying railroad tracks, he was destroying the ability of the civilians to support the war effort, which in turn prevented the army, the Southern armies, from being able to recover from their losses. And so this is going to be the first use of total war in the modern era. But the American Civil War had been a kind of experiment, a kind of a proving ground for the concept of war in the late 19th century. So the World War I was actually fought based on the lessons of the American Civil War. Okay. Another place where we can see that is in trench warfare. Trench warfare was not something that was practiced until Robert E. Lee dug a bunch of trenches around Richmond and Petersburg in order to keep the superior Union troops from advancing. And that's going to be adopted then also in World War I. The thing about total war is that it's not two armies against each other, it's whole populations against each other. So, for example, it's not just the Germans against the British or the German army against the British Army. It's all of the British against all of the Germans. So everybody, all the civilians in England are somehow involved in the war effort, and all the civilians in Germany also somehow involved in the war effort. And the whole war effort then is going to be against the other nation. And really what that does is it means that there aren't any innocent civilians, that it's the whole country at war. You guys are with me. And this is going to be the way that World War I is fought. Okay, before we go any further, I want us to think about how would that work? In the United States, another country attacking us. Well, how would it work for the United States for all of the Americans to be against all of the English or all of the Germans or all of the French? It would be hard because there are so many loyalties in the United States. Because we're all immigrants from those places. Exactly. So you could say that in a total war, you could say we're all British and we're all against the Germans. Right. Which is kind of ridiculous because there's all kinds of mixing always going on. Right. But in America, you couldn't say that because Americans identify with the place where they came from. I mean, even today, most of us will say, well, you know, my grandparents came from. My grandparents came from Norway. Right? You see what I'm saying? So. So we always identify with that. We don't necessarily all. There isn't any such thing as an American nation in terms of ethnicity. You guys get what I'm saying? And so that's gonna make it difficult for the Americans to get involved in this total war thing. And what will end up happening, the result of it is going to be that there's going to be backlash of Americans against other Americans. So, for example, Americans will target people with German last names, and they will basically lynch them or run them out of town. And what will happen is, as a result of this, many people with German last names will Anglicize their names. They'll change their names to something that sounds more English, essentially. And that will help them to stay kind of on the right side. But it shows this. It shows this sense of otherness that can be created, which doesn't necessarily have anything to do with race, because if you put a British and French and a German standing next to each other, you wouldn't know who was who until they started talking. You follow what I'm saying? So you can create this sense of difference without even worrying about skin color. And what is the motivating factor? The motivating factor is fear. You're the other, and I'm afraid of you. You Germans are going to destroy us. Let me just show you this here, right? What do we see here? What do you guys see here? This is a. This is a recruiting poster from World War I. This is one of many. Okay, but what do we see in this recruiting poster? An uncivilized representation of probably the Germans. Okay, so we know you're saying that this gorilla is German. I don't know. Maybe. I think so. Brute. Well, with a helmet with the spike on it. So, yeah, it's got the pickle halber helmet. Right. I don't know if it's hard to see, but it's got culture with a K. Right? Which makes it German. Okay, but what's he doing? He's landing on America's shores. Right? So what do we see behind him? What is this? The ocean. Right. Supposed to represent the Atlantic Ocean. And he's coming from. What's this in the background? Europe. Right. And what's happened to Europe? Looks like it's in shambles. Right? He's destroyed Europe already with his culture club. Right? And now he's coming to America. And then who's he got in his. Who's he got in? His hands? I'm having trouble hearing you. Okay, I'm sorry. What can I do to help? Can you hear me now? Sorry, that was Siri. I'm sorry. Sorry. I accidentally activated my Siri. Oh, that was the phone. I can hear you. Tell your Siri to shut up. Right, so anyway, so who is it? Who is this gorilla holding? Is that Lady Liberty? Could be. Or who else could it be? It could be your. Your sister, your girlfriend, your daughter, your mom. Right? Of course. Nobody's mom dresses like that. But. But you get what I'm saying, though, right? So who do you think this is appealing to? The men. The men. Right. Because they. What is the job of the men? The men. The job of the man is to, you know, protect our women's. Right. Okay. And it's encouraging people to enlist. What emotion is being called upon here? Fear and anger. Fear and anger. Exactly. So fear and anger. And what this fear and anger does is it takes everybody that's German and turns them into gorillas. Why would they be gorillas? Why couldn't they just be people? They're not the same as us. They're not the same as us. But also what? They're less. Less dehumanizes them. They're not humans. And why do we have to make them not humans? So we can justify killing them. Exactly. You can kill farmers, you can kill monsters, but you can't kill humans. You can't kill your brother. Right. In theory. Okay, you guys follow what I'm saying here. So this is going to be what really drives Americans toward supporting the war. And it also splits Americans. Americans. You're going to see in the United States a real backlash against German Americans during this period of time. All right, well, anyway, so. So now, moving on. The Russian Revolution. What happens is that Russia is going to be. Actually, this isn't the best map. Let me show you the other map. Russia is going to be doing poorly in the war from the very beginning. What will happen is that Russia will actually invade Germany, but the Germans will push back the Russian advance. And the only reason why they can't finish their conquest of Russia is because they're tied down here on the Western Front by the Western Allies. And in the meantime, the Ottoman Empire, what's left of the empire of Constantinople, is going to. Is going to join the war on the side of Germany. What that does is it cuts off the flow of goods to Russia from the outside world. The only. The only way to get. The only really, the warm water port in Russia is right here in the Crimean Peninsula, which you can't see, but it's there. Okay? And if you close, the only way to get there is through this very narrow waterway called the Bosporus and the Dardanelles. And if you can't get goods through there, then Russia can't get goods from the outside. And when the war is progressing, Russia will experience crop failures, meaning that people are starving. And the Russians continue the war, but the people are starving. And that's going to lead to an opportunity for Communists to rebel, to conduct a revolution against the monarchy. And the result of it is going to be that in 1917, there's going to be two different revolutions in Russia. The first one happens in March, and the March Revolution replaces the monarchy with a liberal democracy led by a guy named Alexander Kerensky. And if you want to know what Kerensky looks like, he looks like Herman Munster. So if you don't know who that looks like, then go look him up. He just doesn't have the bolts coming out of his neck. But Alexander Kerensky becomes the leader of this new liberal democracy in Russia. And that liberal democracy will last until October, which is really November in the Western calendar. You guys have heard of the movie the Hunt for Red October? Red October is when the Bolsheviks are going to depose Alexander Kerensky and take over this Russia as the Communist Party. The Bolsheviks. Right. And we're going to talk more about them when we talk about the Cold War. Okay? But for now, just understand that for a period of time between March and November, Russia was actually a liberal democracy. Okay, you guys following here, now, why would that be important? We would see them more favorably. Right? Because what was keeping Wilson from joining the war on the side of the Allies, they didn't like Russia was a monarchy, that Russia was a monarchy, and we didn't want to be allied with a monarchy. All right? So now, in the meantime, what happens is that the Germans see this as a great opportunity. Their idea is that they're going to launch an enormous offensive on the Western Front that will crush the Allies and then they'll move their armies and take over Russia. Or actually, no, it was the other way around. They were taking their armies away from Russia and moving into the Western Front, okay? The reason why was because when the Bolsheviks took over, they left the war. They left the war. So then there was this. They figured that in the meantime, what they could do is they could resume unrestricted submarine warfare. And their idea was that even if the United States did declare war, they could never get organized to send troops to Europe before the war would be over. That was their gamble, essentially. It turned out to be a bad, bad gamble. But just to be sure, the German Foreign Minister, Arthur Zimmerman, sends a telegram to the Mexican president, Venustiano Carranza, suggesting that if the United States declared war on Germany, then Mexico should declare war on the United States. And that after the war was over and the Germans had won, that the Mexicans would receive all the territory that they had lost in the Mexican American War, which was Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, California, parts of Utah, Nevada, a huge area of land. In fact, half of Mexico, really. Okay? So now what happens is that the Mexican President never answers the telegram, but the telegram is actually intercepted by the British, and the British end up publishing it in the American press. And the American press, the Americans are going to become unalterably in favor of war against Germany. Americans are going to insist that the United States must crush Germany because they had threatened to take away American territory. And the Americans are like, how dare they threaten to take away this territory that we won, that we conquered fair and square, right? That we stole fair and square, okay? And so because of that, because of all these different things, now that Russia is now a liberal democracy and because the people are demanding war against Germany, Wilson declares war, and the United States enters the war, and the United States actually sends troops to Europe, and those troops are actually going to make a difference, okay? And the reason why, again, was because the balance of power was so precarious that the introduction of this new fresh power from America is going to turn the war in favor of the. Of the Allies. And the Allies didn't start to push the Germans back. And the result of that then was going to be that the Germans would eventually realize they couldn't win the war and they will negotiate a peace before the Allies enter Germany to prevent Germany from being destroyed.

I want you to notice that when the United States enters the war again, the reason why the United States enters the war is because of Wilson's idealism. The idea that the United States was going to get involved in this war and that the outcome of the war would be that they would depose all of the monarchies. And his idea was that if there weren't any more monarchies, then we could all be happy democratic countries with capitalist economies and we'd all be happy. And because of that, there wouldn't be any more wars. Right? So that's how this came to be known as the war to end all wars. Okay? The other idea that, that he had was that the United States wasn't in the war to conquer, but the United States was in the war to end the war and to bring about peace. Peace, freedom. Peace and freedom, right? The United States is involved in the war not because we want to conquer anybody, not because we want to gain an empire, but we're there because we want to bring peace and freedom. And this is going to set the tone for American foreign policy, for American engagement in the world from then all the way up until now, with the exception of the last four years. The idea being that America gets involved in world affairs in order to support democracy, but not for any other reason. Okay, you guys follow what I'm saying. So this is going to be the basis for this idea that we're the Americans, we're the good guys, we're here to help. Right? Guys are with me. Questions, comments about all this. Okay, so now what happens is that the German high command is going to recognize that they can't possibly win. And so they'll make a contact with the Americans saying that they want to make a. They want to end the war based on Wilson's ideas that are laid out into 14 points. You can lay, you can, you can read about the 14 points in the book, but the 14 points are much more agreeable to the Germans than the idea that the French and the British have, which is that they want to crush Germany. So Germany offers to surrender to the United States, but Wilson refuses to accept the surrender. As long as the Kaiser is the monarch in Germany, the Kaiser is still in power. So the result then is that the Kaiser abdicates and a republic is formed. And then the United States accepts the surrender of Germany. There's an armistice reached. The armistice goes into effect in the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month of 1918. So November 11th, at 11am in the morning. That's the only a.m. there is actually the peace goes into effect, the ceasefire, and then they're going to negotiate a treaty. Okay. One of the most tragic episodes of the entire war is going to be that between the decision. The agreement for an armistice was reached at 06:00 in the morning, but the armistice didn't go into effect until 11:00 in the morning. And so between 6:00 and 11:00, both sides pushed the advance, pushed their men in an aggressive way, trying to gain as much as they possibly could. And so I think somewhere like 600,000 men died in the last five hours of World War I. Okay, questions? Comments about this? And that's why I said this. This shows kind of the extent of human stupidity. You know, Albert Einstein said there are two things that are infinite, the universe and human stupidity. And I'm not sure about the universe. So anyway, now the war is over and Wilson is seen by the Europeans as a great hero. So Wilson's going to leave the United States and go to help to negotiate a treaty at Versailles, which is the palace of the French King outside of Paris. It doesn't show. Oh yeah, here it is right here. There's Versailles. Okay. And when he gets there, he's again, he's greeted as a conquering hero. Everybody in Europe loves him. But he made a couple mistakes and the first one was that he didn't involve the Republicans in his expedition. He left the Republicans completely out of his peacemaking efforts, which is going to come back to haunt him in a few minutes. Right. But the other thing was that when he got to Versailles, he couldn't care less about the division of what was left of the German empire. He wanted to implement his ideas of peace without victory. So I just, I picked out three different aspects of that that we can think about for a minute. The first one is national self determination. The idea is that every country should be able to determine for itself how it will be ruled as long as it's democracy. Right? You guys get it. So national self determination, why do you think the Allies wouldn't like that? Think about Britain and France. What are they? Empires. A lot of different nations under control. Exactly. So now do you think that the French are going to say, hey, let's have, I got an idea, let's just give up our empire in Southeast Asia. Or the British are going to say, hey, why, it'd be a great idea to just let India go. Right? What do you guys think? Or anywhere in Africa. Right? You guys follow what I'm saying? So this is never going to become part of the treaty. Okay? The other one is the United States is going to lobby, I guess, for unrestricted free trade. What would be wrong with that? From the point of view of the Allies, if there was unrestricted free trade, that would mean that the Americans could trade with India or with Vietnam. What would be wrong with that? That, again, goes against empire. Right? What's the whole purpose of having an empire? The whole purpose of empire is to support your economy. And the way that you do that is you control the economy of that other country. You follow what I'm saying? So the Europeans are not going to go for that either. The last one, though, is collective security. All right? Collective security is a counterbalance to the balance of power politics of before the war, because the balance of power politics was supposed to keep a war from happening because neither side would be powerful enough to overcome the other. And that last part was true, but it didn't keep the peace. And so Wilson's idea was, well, rather than having two sets of equal powers, we should just have everybody on the same side. We'll have what's called collective security. Right, so that means then that if one country invades another country or one country threatens another country, they're actually threatening all the countries because he's saying all the countries in the world should be part of this. What's going to be called the League of Nations. Right? Let's think about this for a second, because I'm going to. I'm going to pick some people here. I'm going to pick Ian. You have to be a country. What. What country are you? Ian, you can pick any country. You're muted. I'll be Czech Republic because. Okay, Ian's a Czech Republic. And Delaney, you have to pick a country. I think I would pick Switzerland. Okay, so we got Czech Republic in Switzerland. And, Angelo, you're going to be the United States. Okay. Okay, so now. So now what happens is that we're all in the League of Nations, meaning we're all on the same side, but Switzerland decides to invade the Czech Republic, Right? So now when Switzerland. Actually, all of us in this class are. We're all countries, right? But when Switzerland invades the Czech Republic, what are you supposed to do? Anita, we're supposed to help Switzerland. Exact. No, sorry. The Czech Republic. Exactly. What are we supposed to do? Nay. Nay, what are we supposed to do? What are you supposed to do? Your country, you're supposed to protect it. Protect your people. Rule it. Which people? Remember what Anita said, John? Who? You. What are you supposed to do? I mean, I guess if you're the ruler, the people that's in your country that's supporting you. I guess. Okay. What? But let's think about now. What we said was that everybody has to support the one that's being attacked. Who's being attacked here? Ian. Ian's being attacked. Right. Okay, so if. If it's. It's Linda. Linda, You're. You're the. No. Who is it? Delaney. Delaney attacked Ian. Right. And so we're supposed to help who? We're all on the same side. Who are we supposed to help? Constantine. Who are we supposed to help? Both. We're supposed to defend whatever the United States has impact with. We're supposed to help them. Okay. Packed with everybody. Who are we supposed to help? Democracy. Well, not necessarily now. We're helping the people who are under attack. Right, exactly. So that means that if everybody here is a country. And everybody here has to come to the aid of the Czech Republic. So, Anita, Professor Cox, Nay, Giant Kyle, Linda Bajad, all you guys have to come on the side of Ian. And then the idea would be that if all of us were on the side of Ian, then Delaney wouldn't stand much of a chance. You guys get what I'm saying? And so that's the idea behind collective security. You guys get that. That if you attack one, you attack everybody. And you couldn't possibly win against everybody. You guys follow me here. The problem has to do with the American Constitution. Because, Angelo, if. If Delaney attacks Ian and you're the United States, what are you supposed to do? Defend Ian. Exactly. What's wrong with that in the United States is that we're supposed to have unrestricted free trade. Well, no, that's not it. Just think about how. Who declares war in the United States? In theory, the President. No. Congress. Exactly. Congress has the war making powers. Right? So. But in this case, what we see is that Congress doesn't have anything to do with it. We're in a treaty. So Delaney attacks Ian and we're drawn into this war without even Congress getting involved. You follow what I'm saying? So it's a threat to American sovereignty. Okay? So here's what's gonna happen. Everything in the 14 points is going to be rejected by the Europeans. The only thing that Wilson will get out of it is the League of Nations, which is collective security. But the problem is going to be that because he didn't include Republicans, Republicans were not gonna be on board with what he did, and are also going to be concerned about American Sovereignty. And so the United States never ratifies the treaty, okay? So the United States ends up making a separate treaty, and the United States doesn't even join the League of Nations because we've rejected the treaty. You guys follow what I'm saying, okay? So that's going to be really a kind of a defeat for the United States. All right, let me just show you one last thing here, and then I'm gonna let you guys go. Right? But what happened at Versailles was that the winners got together and they decided that they were going to divide up the world's empires, okay? What was left of the Austro Hungarian Empire and what was left of the German Empire, okay? And what they did was they sat down at a table in Versailles and they drew a map, started drawing lines on a map, right? And the lines that they drew created countries that had not existed before, like Czechoslovakia. Right? But their idea was, well, we can make a country out of Czechoslovakia just by drawing lines on a map, right? We can make a country out of Hungary or Romania or Yugoslavia. Right? Or Syria, Iraq, Jordan, Palestine, Tanzania, Vietnam. Right? We can go ahead and make countries out of these just by drawing lines on a map. The problem was that creating a nation is much more difficult than just drawing lines on a map, right? One of the examples is going to be, for example, Czechoslovakia. Czechoslovakia is going to be torn apart after World War II into two different countries, the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. But then let's look at the Middle East. Here in the Middle east, this is what's left over from the Ottoman Empire. Turkey becomes an independent country, theoretically democratic, but then we create new countries. Syria, Lebanon, Palestine, Iraq. Okay, so now what is Iraq? Iraq is actually had been ruled by the Ottoman Empire for a thousand years. And it had never been a single country. It had always been three different areas. One was dominated by Shiites, one was dominated by Sunnis, and one was dominated by Kurds. And they didn't get along with each other. And that's why the Ottomans left them in their own separate areas. You guys follow what I'm saying? But now the people in the west come along and they draw a line on the map, say, okay, you guys are all Iraqis. Okay, how does that work out? Not. Not well. Not well. Not well. Okay, and what happens then is that these groups are all squabbling with each other until a strongman like Saddam Hussein comes along and quashes all dissent, essentially. Right? But it doesn't create a country. And then when the United States goes in, their expressed goal was to defend the Iraqi nation from dictatorship. The question, though, is, what Iraq nation? There was no Iraqi nation. Do you follow me here? And so the result was that the United States was defending a fiction based on the ignorance of history. It's a good idea for American policymakers to know history, don't you think? And this happens everywhere else, too. This is going to be where they divide. All the different divisions of the countries in Africa, for example, are based on the colonial reality rather than on the ethnic reality. And that's why there's so much unrest in Africa. You follow what I'm saying, even to this day. And then also, all the unrest in the Middle east comes out of the Versailles Treaty. Right? So my argument is that the Versailles Treaty was one of the most destructive acts in history because it's created so much turmoil, so much bloodshed, and it continues today.

