We're gonna do a little word game with this sentence. People search for solutions. All right, so what we're gonna do is we're gonna figure out where can we put the word desperate in there, okay? We say, okay, well, desperate people search for solutions. Yep, that's true. People desperately search for solutions. Yeah, that's true. All right. People search for desperate solutions. And that's also true, right? When the economy's dead, when you don't have any prospect of being able to live and support your family, then your investment in things like freedom, liberty, idealism kind of goes out the window. You follow what I'm saying? And so what we see then is that all of the countries of the world that were formerly capitalist countries will look for some form of desperate solution, right? And here's some examples. For example, corporatism. Oh, sorry about that. Corporatism is basically a one party state, okay? The idea is that all of the politics of the, of the country happen within the party. And because of that, the party then can run the economy and the military and everything else, right? And the idea then would be that there wouldn't be any political upheaval and they could save the economy. All right, that's obviously very generalized view, right? But where we see this is in Italy with fascism, in Germany with Nazism, in Spain with phalanges. Also in Latin America, Peronismo, Juan Peron in Argentina, Gatulio Vargas in Brazil, right? The idea here is that there's a single party state and that because it's a single party state, they'll be able to manage the economy to recovery. All right, the problem, well, there's many problems, but the main problem here with corporatism is that in every case except one, corporatism becomes represented by an individual. It becomes a cult of personality, right? So for example, in Italy we associate fascism with Mussolini, right? In Germany we associate Nazism with Hitler, right? In Spain, we associate Falangism with Francisco Franco. And in Argentina, Juan Peron, and in Brazil, Getulio Vargas. And then the consequence of that is that when these people leave the scene, their corporate governments collapse because the party isn't really the party, it's really that person. You guys get what I'm saying? But the only significant exception to that would be in Mexico with the pre. The PRI was actually the revolutionary party in Mexico after 1920, right? And it actually lasted all the way until 2000. And why did it last so long? The reason why was because the PRI was not associated with a single individual, right? That it was associated with Whoever was the president, but the president could Only serve for 6 years with no reelection, right? So there was a phrase in Mexican politics, God dies every six years, okay? And that's the reason why pre lasted for so long. But if you actually look at the history of the pre, you'll see that at some points it was socialist, at some points it was conservative and reactionary. Right? It depends on who was in government power at the time. But the main thing to take away from it was that the politics was handled within the party and not in open politics. Right? Which meant really that the people have no say in it. All, right? Or very little. Okay? Only the party has a say. Okay? So conversely, in the United States, right, if your labor, if your interest is in labor, the Democratic Party represents you. If your interest is in the corporate world, the Republican Party represents you. And then you work out the differences between those at the ballot box. But the people have input. You see what I'm saying? That's not the way it is in a corporate state. In a corporate state, you don't have any input. So it's really not democracy. In fact, many people call it capitalism without democracy. Right. Questions? Comments? Okay. Then we see in Japan, the military takes over with the idea that if we start a war that's going to help the economy, so they invade China and they set out on a course of conquest in Asia that will eventually lead to World War II, which we'll talk about on Wednesday. In other countries in Europe, like France and Britain and Scandinavia, there's going to be a movement towards socialism. Socialism meaning that the government actually takes control of certain sections of the economy, like healthcare, railroads, some businesses and things like that, with the idea that the government actually. The government can actually save these corporations for the benefit of the people. Right? And then we already talked about in Soviet Union was already communist. So of all of the countries in the world that felt the Great Depression, only one of them didn't go for some more desperate solution, and that was in the United States. In the United States, rather than going for socialism or militarism or fascism, the United States went for what's called the New Deal. And that's what we're going to talk about next. Well, let me just. Let me just mention, or let me ask you, really, the idea, the reason why people would give up their democracy in order to support fascism was what? What was the reason for that? Why would people be willing to give up democracy and support fascism? Because fascism promised what? Fixed economy, Right? Fascism promised to fix the economy. Same with Nazism and all these other solutions. Did fascism fix the Great Depression? No. No. And why not? Could fascism in Italy solve a world depression? No. No. Why not? Because it only applies to Italy. Exactly. The problem was a worldwide problem. But at this point, there's no mechanism for all the countries of the world to come together and find a solution. You see what I'm saying? All right, so really, none of these different solutions to the Great Depression worked.
