Let's look at the New Deal, A lot of different acronyms, which we're not going to actually have to talk about all of them. You don't have to remember them. Right. But let's go back and start with historically, chronologically. The man who was president when the stock market crashed was Herbert Hoover. Herbert Hoover was a Republican. And because he was a Republican, he believed in capitalism, and he believed that. That the Depression was just another downturn, that capitalism went through boom and bust cycles. And then when it was in a boom cycle, everybody's making money. When it's in bust cycles, you just kind of entrench and wait and it'll come back eventually. That's the idea. Historically, that's the way it looked. Right. It looked like that's what had happened. Did you have a question, Cooper? Yeah. Didn't everyone hate Hoover? Hoover? Well, not everyone. But Hoover did take the blame for the Great Depression because they said he didn't do anything. Right. Which is not true. He did do some things, but he didn't think that was necessary to do anything extraordinary because he thought that it was just a natural capitalist cycle. Does that make sense? And so the result was that one of the things that Roosevelt was able to do was to say, look, this guy hasn't done anything. Okay? What the difference between Hoover and Roosevelt was that Roosevelt had been governor of New York and he had been trying different things to alleviate the economic problems in New York. And he promised the American people that if he was elected president that he would do that on a national scale, that he was going to offer the American people a New Deal. And this New deal would be essentially that the government has a role to play in the welfare of the people. Okay? Now, this was different from what people had thought before. What people thought before was that the government was there to do only the things that the people couldn't do. Right. And the idea that the government was there to actually help people was. The idea was that the government wasn't supposed to help people. It was just supposed to do those things that it was supposed to keep its hands off. Right. Laissez faire. That was the idea. Right. But here's Roosevelt. Roosevelt comes along and says, no, the government has a role to play that the government should play a major role in and restoring the welfare of the people. Right. And people bought that. Why? Because they didn't have anything. And because Hoover wasn't trying to do anything. He did some things, but he really wasn't that interested in trying to fix the problem because he thought the problem would fix itself. And Roosevelt said, no, it's not going to fix itself. And the reality was that it wouldn't because capitalism, as I said, was dead. Right, okay, so Roosevelt's elected with a promise of a New Deal, which meant government intervention in the economy. Right. But now let's take a look at the very first that Roosevelt does on his first day in office is to sign what's called the Emergency Banking Act. All right? And what the Emergency Banking act did was it declared a bank holiday, meaning that all the banks in the country were forced to close and that no banks could reopen until they had met certain safety standards that would protect the money that was invested by the depositors. Okay, you guys are with me. And really what it did was it separated the banking system from the stock system from the investment system. Right? So they created a couple of different agencies. One, the fdic, which ensures bank deposits, meaning that if you're the guy behind the guy that got the last of the money, you'd still be able to get your money, but in this case, it would come from the government. Right. You guys get what I'm saying? And then the other part was the securities Exchange Commission, which regulates trading. Right. And it keeps banking out of the trading industry. Okay, you guys are all with me. Question, comments. Okay, so this is to ensure that what had happened that caused the Great Depression wouldn't happen again. Okay, but now let's think about this for a minute. Why would Roosevelt be interested in. In making people have confidence in the bank? Why would he want people to have confidence in the bank? So the money in the bank of bringing the economy back. Okay, so if they put money in the bank, what's that going to do to the economy? How is that going to help the economy stimulate? Yeah, go ahead. Sorry. Go ahead, Cooper. Oh, people could start creating capital again. Right. And so because you could have capital, then you could have, what, jobs and labor? Capitalism. Right, because remember I said you can't have capitalism without capital. And that's what had happened. The industry had collapsed because there wasn't any capital. And so now if we restore the capital, then we can restore the capitalist system. Right. So having said all that, then what do you think is the major focus of the New Deal? What was the real major focus of the New Deal? To restore capitalism. To restore capitalism. Exactly. Now, why do I say that? Well, because, I mean, as I've already mentioned to you, I think I may have mentioned to you that the last speaker of the House, Republican speaker of the House, Paul Ryan had said that it was his job, it was his aspiration to destroy the New Deal. Why? Because it's socialist. Right? And Americans don't like socialism. But now we have to go back and think about what was the purpose of the New Deal. Was it to establish a new economic system? Was it to establish socialism or was it to save capitalism? Go ahead, Cooper. I kind of see it as like, almost like a safety net for capitalism, like when all else fails. These things were sort of like maintain trust in the capital system in a way. Exactly. So what we see in this, remember I told you on the last slide that the only country that was still capitalist at the end of the 1930s was the United States. All of the other countries had done something else more drastic, like phalanges or Nazism or militarism or socialism, but not the United States. The United States was still a capitalist economy. So the argument that we need to get rid of the New Deal because its purpose is to destroy capitalism is just wrong. If you like capitalism, you have to like the New Deal. You know what I'm saying? I mean, I'm not saying you should like capitalism or not like it one or the other, but I'm saying that if you like it, you have to like the New Deal. Okay, well, let's look at some other things that happened, okay? The first one is this is important too, and that is the National Industrial Recovery Act. Basically what it does is it supports labor, right? Labor. It means unions, okay? And one of the things I have mentioned to you guys already before is that Americans have really not been very much in favor of unions. Government has never been in favor of unions. Right. And the reason why is because unionism is seen as communism or socialism. The idea that people coming together, collective bargaining, that's socialism. It's like the proletariat taking over the bourgeoisie. And so Americans have never really supported labor except during World War I for a very short period of time, and then during the Great Depression and also World War II. Okay? So the only time really that Americans have supported labor has been during these periods of time. But one thing that we can notice, the consequence of unionizing is that the unions actually created the middle class. Right? It raised the workers out of the lower classes and into the middle class. So when we looked at this country as a middle class country in the 1960s and the 1970s, right. It was that because of unions. Okay? Now obviously there's people who would argue with me on that one, but I think I have the numbers to back Me up. But at any rate, the point here is that what we see happening with the decline in support for labor is the decline of the middle class, right? So in the last 20 years, the Middle class has essentially disappeared. There's this huge income gap between a few people that own most of the money and then huge amounts of people that own almost nothing, right? And the middle class, if it exists at all, is diminishing. You guys follow what I'm saying here, And I think that you can't help but associate that with the decline in union representation. Okay? Anyway, questions, Comments about that? All right, so next, there was a bunch of different programs that were put together to stimulate spending, like Civilian Works Administration, Swing Conservation Corps. That's this one here. Public Works Administration, Rural Electrification Agency, all these different things. The idea was to spend money to get money back into the economy, right? So it's very much like what we see happening today. I don't know if you looked at your bank account yet today, but today or tomorrow or the next day, you probably will find a pretty substantial check in there, right? And the reason why it's there is because they're trying to put money into the economy, right? And the metaphor that they use for that is priming the pump. Okay? Now, you might not know this, you might not know how pumps actually work, but in the old days, back in my day, if you wanted water, you had to go outside to where the well was, and there was a pump coming up out of the well with the big handle, and you pump the handle and then the water would come out, right? But it didn't work right at first because it was dried out. So you would have to put water into the pump to seal it, so they would actually pull the water out of the well. You guys follow me here, all right, so the idea of priming the pump is you put a little bit of water into the top, and it brings all the water out of the bottom out of the well, okay? And same thing here. You put a little bit of money into the economy, and it'll start the economy flowing again so that there's more money coming out. You guys follow? I'm saying here, that's what they mean by priming the pump, okay? In this case, it would be you put money into the hands of people. People have money now. They want to buy something, but they can't buy anything if nothing's being made. So people start making things, right? And because they start making things, they have to hire people to make them, right? And it gets the economy rolling. Again, you guys follow what I'm saying here. That makes sense. Now, let me just mention to you, sadly, that historically speaking, stimulus has never worked. That no country has ever been able to buy its way out of a depression, okay? Not saying it won't work now, but up to now, it hasn't really worked, okay? We sleep with that. Then this idea of direct relief, the Federal Emergency Relief act, basically what that was, Congress passed the law and said, Here's 500 bucks. Come and get it, right? Well, what's interesting about that, two things. One is that the federal government had never made direct payments to individuals, right? The federal government, if it made any payments at all, made payments to its own agencies or to states, right? But not to the people, because the federal government was supposed to. Was not supposed to really have that relationship with the people, right? You guys follow what I'm saying? All right? So here we have the Congress saying, here's money. Come and get it. Right? Which a lot of people are screaming about. The federal government shouldn't be doing that. It's outside of its. Its mandate, essentially, right? The other part of it was that people didn't want it, right? People wouldn't take it. And the reason why was because they didn't want to take money that they didn't work for. And so what they had to do was they had to create basically make work programs. So you had to go downtown and empty the trash or something like that, and then you get your 500 bucks, right? But the idea here is that this is the beginning of what we would call the welfare state, right? The welfare state, meaning that the federal government is now supporting individuals. Federal government is no longer just an umbrella organization for the states. Okay? You guys get what I'm saying? Questions? Comments? All right. Okay, last thing. Social Security. Social Security. Idea behind Social Security was that people, if they got older, they got sick and they couldn't work anymore, there was nothing for them to rely on, okay? If they couldn't, if they didn't have family or something like that, then they were just out of luck, okay? And there wasn't any. What they call a safety net, okay? And so the idea then was to create a safety net. And the way that they did that was by taxing people who are working, right? So up until this time in American history, when you went through each year, each census year, which you Remember happens every 10 years, right? Every census year had seen an increase in population, okay? So the expectation was that the population would continue to increase and that the people who were in the Workforce would always outnumber the people who were retired. So that the people in the workforce would be able to pay into a fund that they could take out of that fund and pay to the people that were retired. You guys get what I'm saying? And that would always work because the population was always going to grow. The problem was after World War II, there was a huge increase in population that was very short lived where they created the baby boomer generation. Okay, Boomer, right. And then the population started to decline and it's continued to decline since then. So the reality is now, I mean, I just retired this last year and I'm basically in the middle of the baby boom generation. Right, okay, Boomer. And what we see happening then is that there's more and more people retiring, less and less people paying into Social Security. You see what I'm saying? So the reality is that Social Security can't continue to pay out what it's paying out now without either raising taxes or lowering the benefit. You follow? I'm saying, well, neither one of those things is an attractive possibility for old people. And the last thing you want to do is, is get old people angry because old people vote, right? And so basically then Social Security has a built in problem that nobody wants to touch because it's political. It's a. It's a political loser. Okay? One other problem with Social Security is that even though it's essentially taking money from the people who are working now and giving to the people that are retired, that's not the way they sold it. The way they sold it was that you were paying money into an account that was your account that you would be able to draw on at the end of your career, essentially, right? So every year I used to get a letter saying this is how much money you've paid into your account and this is how much money you can get if you retire at whatever age, right? The reality is that that money that's supposed to be in my account isn't there. Okay? There is no account. All right? And that the money that's being paid to me today through my Social Security is coming from you guys who are working and paying Social Security. You guys get what I'm saying? Okay, so the problem here then is to say you can't go to people and say, okay, well, remember we told you you had this account full of money. Well, guess what? We were just kidding. You don't really have an account full of money. You have nothing. Right? Do you see what I'm saying? So it's a huge problem based on really a bad sell and the result is that it's something that is going to be very difficult to solve. Also. I think another part of the issue is that people are just living longer in general because of healthcare and stuff. It's always improving technology. So like it's also an ongoing, I guess not alien issue but an issue. No, it is an issue because the expectation how dare you live longer? Yeah, exactly. The expectation in 1933 or 4, whenever they put this in 4, I think when they put it into effect was that people, I mean 65 was old. Nobody lived past 65. Right. And now we got people living to 80, 90. I have, I have friends who are in their 70s, 80s, right. And so people are living longer and collecting more money and there's people less people paying into it. So that's you're right, that is a problem.
