One last thing and then we're done. Okay? Remember we talked about the Red Scare that happened after World War I. The same thing happens after World War II. The Soviets are vocally aggressive. Basically, the Khrushchev said, as it mentioned in the song at the beginning of the, of the lecture, that he would bury us. Now, he didn't mean that he was going to do it with a shovel. He meant that they were going to do it economically, but that didn't happen. At any rate, Americans were very concerned about communism. And so basically, if you wanted to be a politician in the 1950s and the 1960s, you had to be a very staunch anti communist, right? And Americans were afraid of communism, even though most Americans didn't even know what it was. Okay? At any rate, what will happen is that there's going to be a. There's going to be one politician. His name is Joseph McCarthy. He's a senator from Wisconsin. And he's going to muster. He's going to essentially weaponize this kind of, in many ways unreasonable fear of communism. Okay? Now we can say this. The first thing we can say is, was there a threat? Yes, there was a threat. The Soviets said that if they could, they would destroy the United States. Right. The problem is that Americans were never going to fall for communism. Why? Americans don't like communism because they like property. Like, yeah, we don't want to give up our stuff. Exactly. All right? So the idea that we were going to be sneaked into or duped into communism is really ridiculous, okay? But it was enough to keep people in fear. It was enough to keep people's attention. It was enough to mobilize people. Okay? And the way that this guy Truman did. Excuse me, McCarthy. The way that McCarthy did that was he said, he basically, he said that he had the list of 100 names of people working in the State Department who were actually Soviet spies. Okay? Now, he never produced this list, okay? Nobody ever knew who was on the list, but it gave him a lot of attention, right? And he started. He started basically holding hearings against different people who were accused of being Communist. And what happened then was that it kind of elevated into a situation where all you had to do was be accused of being a Communist and that was the end of your career. That's one of the reasons why many people, particularly in American government, actually accused Martin Luther King of being a Communist. Right? Martin Luther King was nowhere near being a Communist. He was never going to be a communist. Right. Because he was a Christian. But nevertheless, if you can label him a Communist, and that makes him an enemy, you guys get what I'm saying? And it was because of this kind of atmosphere of fear that was created by McCarthy, who was using it really for his own political well being, his own political influence. All right. Okay. So what ends up happening is that McCarthy makes a big mistake and he takes on the Army. And I'm going to show you a couple of clips here, but one of the first clip I'm going to show you is going to be when finally people realized that McCarthy had overstepped the bounds of democracy. Here's the thing. The problem with what McCarthy was doing was that he was using the same tactics as the people that he opposed. Right? And one of the things that I think that this other guy we're going to see here in a minute says you can't defend democracy abroad by preventing it at home or by destroying it at home. Right? And that's what he was doing. Okay? He was basically running a campaign of innuendo that was destroying people's lives. Right? So let me just show you this one clip here at one of the hearings. Mr. Chairman, may I say that Mr. Welch talks about this being cruel and reckless. He was just baiting. He has been baiting Mr. Cohen here for hours, requesting that Mr. Cohen, before sundown, get out of any department of the government anyone who is serving the communist cause. Now, I just give this man's record, and I want to say, Mr. Welch, that it has been labeled long before he became a member as early as 1944. May we not drop this? We know he belonged to the Lawyers Guild. And Mr. Cole nods his head at me. I did you, I think, no personal injury, Mr. Cole. No, sir. I meant to do you no personal injury. And if I did, I beg your pardon? Let us not assassinate this lad further, Senator. You have done enough. Have you no sense of decency, sir? At long last, have you left no sense of decency? I know this hurts you, Mr. Welch. I'll say it. May I say, Mr. Chairman, as a point of personal privacy, I'd like to finish this. Senator, I think it hurts you too, sir. I'd like to finish this. I know Mr. Cohen would rather not have me go into this. I intend to, however. And Mr. Mr. Welch talks about any sense of decency. It seems that Mr. Welch is pained so deeply he thinks it's improper for me to give the record, the communist front record of the man whom he wanted to hoist upon this committee. But it doesn't pain him at all. There's no pain in his chest about the attempt to destroy the reputation and the take the jobs away from the young men who are working in my committee. And Mr. Welch, if I have said anything here which is untrue, then tell me. I have heard you and everyone else talk so much about laying the truth upon the table that when I heard it was completely phony. Mr. Welch, I have listened you not for a long time now before sundown. You must get these people out of government. So I just want to have it very clear, very clear that you were not so serious about that when you tried to recommend this man for this committee. But the point is, Mr. Chair would like to say again that he somehow wants to recommend Mr. Fisher as counsel for this committee because he had to his office all the recommendations Richard made and does not recall any of them coming from Mr. Welch. And that would include Mr. Fisher. Well, let me ask Mr. Welch. You brought him down, did you not? To act as your assistant. Mr. McCarthy, I will not discuss this further with you. You have sat within six feet of me and could have asked me about Fred Fisher. You have seen fit to bring it out. And if there is a God in heaven, it will do neither you nor your cause any good. I will not discuss it further. I will not ask Mr. Cohen any more witnesses. You, Mr. Chairman, may of your will call the next witness. You guys saw the video clip, right? Okay, so you heard the video clip, right? That was the. It's a very famous. Although you might not have heard of it, it's a very famous event where McCarthy. McCarthy was actually called out. And then after that, he eventually ended up being censured by the Congress. Okay, but let me just. Somehow or other, I got this all screwed up. The guy that you saw at the end, the younger looking guy, his name was Roy Cohn. He was actually Donald Trump's lawyer. Okay? He was Donald Trump's lawyer in New York and his mentor. Right. And we're going to be. You guys probably, if you looked at the syllabus, you know that on Monday we're going to be discussing chapters five and six of the. Of the Meacham book that I gave you guys. Right? And one of those chapters is about McCarthy. And I think that you'll find that the. I think that you may find some very interesting parallels between the career of Joseph McCarthy and the career of later politicians. All right? So anyway, that's something that for you to look forward to. Questions, comments about any of that. I want to show this other thing. This is one of the things that ended up having A major effect on public opinion. And it was by a journalist named Edward R. Murrow. He was. He was really the kind of Walter Cronkite before Walter Cronkite, okay? And he had a show and he had a kind of a conflict with McCarthy. And this is how he ended up basically denouncing McCarthy. So let me just go ahead and show this. Earlier, the Senator asked, upon what meat does this R. Caesar feed? Had he looked three lines earlier in Shakespeare's Caesar, he would have found this line, which is not altogether, altogether inappropriate. The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves. No one familiar with the history of his country can deny that congressional committees are useful. It is necessary to investigate before legislating. But the line between investigating and persecuting is a very fine one. And the junior Senator from Wisconsin has stepped over it repeatedly. His primary achievement has been in confusing the public mind as between the internal and the external threats of Communism. We must not confuse dissent with disloyalty. We must remember always that accusation is not proof and that conviction depends upon evidence and due process of law. We will not walk in fear, one of another. We will not be driven by fear into an age of unreason if we dig deep in our history and our doctrine and remember that we are not descended from fearful men, not from men who feared to write, to speak, to associate and to defend causes that were for the moment, unpopular. This is no time for men who oppose Senator McCarthy's methods to keep silent or for those who approve. We can deny our heritage and our history, but we cannot escape responsibility for the result. There is no way for a citizen of a republic to abdicate his responsibilities as a nation. We have come into our full inheritance at a tender age. We proclaim ourselves as indeed we are the defenders of freedom wherever it continues to exist in the world. But we cannot defend freedom abroad by deserting it at home. The actions of the junior Senator from Wisconsin have caused alarm and dismay amongst our allies abroad abroad and given considerable comfort to our enemies. And whose fault is that? Not really his. He didn't create this situation of fear. He merely exploited it, and rather successfully. Cassius was right. The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves. Good night and good luck. So one of the things that. One of the reasons why I think it's important for us to study history is because sometimes the words that were spoken long time ago or in another time actually are appropriate for us. What do you guys think? I think that, you know, we. We definitely are Based, like, history goes in circles, and we're basically going through the same thing, but with a different culture. And basically they'll say anything's communism and people would reject it. And that's kind of like. And it exploded more with the media that we are in. So for us to learn from the past, they're reusing the same tropes again on us. And we should, like, realize. And that's how we, like, overcome the same thing, but it's actually happening over again. Yeah, it's kind of like if. Let's say we put our hand on the stove and we get burned and it hurts really bad, and then we take our hand off the stove and we just forget about it. And next time we're faced with the stove, what are we going to know better? Anybody else? I think that it was nice that at that time there was somebody that enough people admired that they listened to his opinion. I'm not sure we have that now. I'm not sure we have, like, a voice that, you know, most people would listen to. You know, the thing about it is, you know that when he said what he said, you can be sure that there were a number of other people who said, oh, he's full of it. It would be like, you know, Fox News and msnbc. Right. So that part of it's really not different. Okay. It's just that his side seemed to be the more reasonable. And I think that that's really the. The theme of that book that we're reading is that when Americans are faced with this danger, we tend to somehow find the better angels. And I think that this is an example of that.
