 It was a boomtown, thriving auto business, muscle cars, leaded gasoline. Americans from across the political spectrum believed that the lid was going to blow, that this was a moment of apocalypse. It was the summer of 1968. Law and order have broken down in Detroit, Michigan. And we're going to keep on riding until they stop on it. I was in Vietnam for a year and a day. I didn't die there, but I'm going to lose my life here in Detroit. People said that after the riot, Detroiters would never come downtown again. Well, they sure as heck came down for the Tigers. It was like, you know, don't throw that brick. The Tigers are off. There wasn't any doubt in my mind and the rest of the team that we're going to be the champions. There was nobody going to beat us. On a hot, humid night in the summer of 1967, a dozen vice squad officers from Detroit's 10th Police Precinct raided a blind pig, an illegal after-hours joint on Teeming 12th Street. It was the heart of the black neighborhood and the automotive capital of the world. We were coming back on the Claremont bus, and just as we passed 12th Street, we saw all this commotion. Instead of the usual sparse Saturday night crowd of late night revelers, cops discovered about 80 people toasting the homecoming of two Vietnam vets. This sort of raid had been executed countless times before without incident. But on this night, July 23rd at 3.45 a.m., an irate crowd gathered outside the club. Someone within the crowd threw a bottle that shattered the window of a police cruiser. As they were leading all these people out, it was creating a scene. We saw people throwing rocks and bottles, first at the police and then at some of the stores. I was in the dressing room at the Fox Theater, and I was about to sing Jimmy Mack, our newest release. I was so happy to have a new record, and someone was whispering and beckoning me from the edge of the stage. I went to the edge of the stage and it was told to me that there's a riot going on. Just eight hours after the confrontation on 12th Street, the Detroit Tigers prepared to play a doubleheader against the New York Yankees. The Tigers fueled their best lineup of the decade, and they were only two games out of first place in what figured to be a heated pennant race. Their home was a downtown oasis less than three miles away from 12th Street in the nation's fifth largest city, but a world away from the smoldering unrest. Tiger Stadium, and it still is, it's like a fort. It was this walled, enclosed, special place where everyone could come and feel safe and almost in a place of escape. It had this kind of pristine cleanness about it, like the grass had never been trampled to bomb. If you're from Michigan, to be a Detroit Tiger is quite an honor. Anybody that was born around this city or in this state that could make it to Detroit, that's their first team. Following the Tigers in the mid-1960s, especially when they were doing well, it was almost a civil religion. By noon on Sunday, a mixed band of the dispossessed had advanced north and west into a deeply divided and troubled city. People were not saying about this thing. They were taking all their frustrations out about the housing and the police brutality, lack of education, jobs and things of that sort. So you had all these pinned up emotions that erupted and nothing could stop it. People are doing this today trying to show that they are angry against the police brutality. In the 60s, the police force was viewed as its occupying force. They used to have a police squad, they called them the Big Four. They'd patrol the black neighborhood, you know. They're like, if me and you would be standing on the corner rapping, they'd pull up and say, now kids, when I come back around this block, I don't want to see any shit like that. I asked people to, let's keep calm. There's nothing to get violent about. I knew right then, I knew right then that this was serious when John Conyers spoke and nothing happened. So I started to retreat again and that's where I was stoned. People were just going in and out grabbing stuff and they would have bombs full of stuff, but it couldn't carry it all. It was like falling all over the place. I remember this one convertible white Cadillac in which there were two guys sitting on the sofa that was across the back of the car and they were each holding TVs, you know, they were waving at us. In those first days, it was not a black on white, white on black riot. There was a lot of diversity in the looting. I mean, you see black people and white people helping each other load cars and trucks with heavy appliances. It was the disaffected, it was the people who were poor, the half of the people who were out there saying, you know, okay, now's my chance to get something. As police flooded 12th Street, a media blackout went into effect. At Tiger Stadium, more than 43,000 fans settled into their seats that Sunday to watch their team try to pick up ground on the first place white socks. The overwhelming majority of the ballpark's crowd was white and unaware of the turmoil on 12th. In the early innings of the game, I saw a curl of smoke coming up behind the left field wall. I was sitting behind first base looking up at left field for the entire game and I could see smoke coming over the stands. The buzz started to circulate in the ballpark that something was going wrong. The concession stands were closing a little quickly. And when I went home, I mean, I went to park my car, my brother and my wife was out there leaning out the window, you know, they said, man, you better get out the street. All these boys, every time you see one of them, he's going to stop a brother, he's going to never stop no wife. That's why we out here and ride and we're going to keep on riding until they stop all of us. But some reason I just got in my car, I just left the field. The Tigers' slugging left fielder Willie Horton grew up in Detroit. A schoolboy star turned hometown hero. For him, the billowing smoke was an urgent cry from home. Willie was the man. I mean, the black community, you know, they read about Willie even before he signed with the Tigers. When he joined the Tigers, it was like the connection had finally been made between the black population of Detroit and this ball club. But even Horton's presence on 12th couldn't calm the raging passions. I had my white uniform on. I had my Tiger uniform on. First I'd end up on Livanoise and I said, this ain't the place. I went back on 12th Street. You know, I got in the middle of the ride and, you know, I just wanted to try to say something to the people. By July, Horton, Brown and starting pitcher Earl Wilson were the only blacks on the 67 Tigers. Brown, known as the Gator, made his living as one of the game's premier pinch hitters, signed out of an Ohio State prison after serving time for a youthful offense. The regal Wilson had come over in a trade from the Red Sox. Together they represented the racial progress made by a conservative organization long resistant to integration in baseball. Detroit was fair, but I don't think the ball club would say it was fair. Black ballplayers are not knocking the door down to come here for the Detroit Tigers because they feel as though they're not welcome and not accepted here. For many though, this birthplace of the automobile and organized labor was seen as a promised land. For 25 years, southern blacks migrated north seeking middle class prosperity. But by the summer of 1967, much of that hope had turned to hopelessness. The unemployment rate for young black men in Detroit stood at an astounding 30 percent. And the promise of LBJ's great society remained out of reach. There was a lot of hoopla around about how the country was changing in order to make life better for black people. And these people would get up in the morning and see the same roaches that they'd seen five years before. When I came back to the parking lot ready to go home, one of the policemen told me that go straight up Jefferson Avenue and don't stop unless you absolutely have to. Keep your windows rolled up because the city's in a lot of trouble. I just have this incredible memory of driving home on the freeway that day and black billowing clouds of smoke coming across the freeway. Everybody driving with their lights on. It's just incredible surrealistic sense of what's happening here. We don't know what's going on. The Tigers split their doubleheader with the Yankees. And as the last out was recorded on Sunday evening, the city shook with the first of several seismic shifts that would eventually decimate Detroit. Rioters smashed windows and left behind rivers of fire ten blocks long. Will the fire department get here shortly? They'll try. Hopefully they'll succeed because that block of buildings is gone and next to it a gas station and behind it homes, people. As the riot spread to engulf 25 square miles of the city, two airlines fearing sniper fire canceled flights into Detroit. The mayor imposed a curfew. The governor, George Romney, declared a state of emergency, sending 8,000 National Guardsmen into a city under siege. I was like a maniac. I kept growing and growing and growing. From that one original event that one night, it just got out of hand. The general was in charge of the Michigan National Guard. He looked to find the government and he said, Sarin, do you know how to deal with niggers? And I said, no sir, I don't. And he said, machine guns and tanks, Sarin, that's how you deal with niggers. Cops quickly went to Kordanoff downtown. They went to the banks and they went to the pawn shops because people began to think, aha, that's where the guns are. Glass breaking, shots being fired, things that sound like bombs. You know, it wasn't the Vietnam of television. It was the Vietnam of my neighborhood. The oppressive heat of the summer days gave way to the raging night fires of revolt. And Detroit, after dark, ignited, as would 150 other communities around the country that summer. As�땅 Rather Than Owl And Detroit, after dark, ignited, as would 150 other communities around the country that summer. And Detroit, after dark, ignited, as would 150 others around the country that summer. He really began to understand that the city was in upheaval. Third Billion 이거ний that the city was in upheaval and there was a full-scale revolution going on just a few miles from where you lived. At home on Sunday night, struggling left-handed pitcher Mickey Lowlich received orders to put on a different uniform. He left the Tigers to join his National Guard unit while the rest of his team prepared to leave the state. City leaders had suddenly switched the Tigers home stand against the Orioles to Baltimore. Their hope? The televised away games might distract attention from what was becoming an urban battleground. Outfielder Jim Northrup was raised in tiny St. Louis, Michigan and like many of the 67 Tigers he had decided to make his home only minutes from the ballpark. I get a call from the traveling secretary and he says you got to be on a bus that we're going to Baltimore. I says what makes you think I want to go to Baltimore? You know I have a family here. They're killing people. They're burning down the town. As governor of the state of Michigan, I do hereby officially request the immediate deployment of federal troops into Michigan. The riots would end only after America's commander-in-chief Lyndon Johnson ordered tanks and nearly 5,000 federal troops into Detroit. Soldiers that had last seen action in Vietnam. Pillage, looting, murder and arson have nothing to do with civil rights and the federal government in the circumstances here present had no alternative but to respond. We're fighting one war now in Vietnam. We were losing as it is so I mean why should we come back here and fight a war among them I mean among ourselves. When the 102nd Airborne came to town that was really defining on it because I think at that point people felt that the United States of America had declared war on Detroit's black community. Nearly one week after it began the war was over. The toll was staggering. 43 people dead, some 7,000 arrested and 2,500 stores looted or burned to the ground and still smoldering with Detroit's doubt whether it had witnessed the end or just the beginning. What are you gonna do? I don't know. I really don't. I may rebuild the store. I'll never come back here. I've had it. The riot didn't heal anything. It only convinced many people that they ought to leave the city. You started to hear then and you're still here today people who claim that you know they don't cross eight mile. Eight mile being the northern border of the city of Detroit and of course you want to see the Tigers you're gonna cross eight mile. By September of 1967, two months after the riots had ended, suburban whites were afraid to cross that line. Tiger Stadium was often more than half empty even though the Tigers were in the thick of a 14 pennant race. The season came down to a final weekend of back-to-back double-headers against the California Angels. Detroit needed to win three of the four games to force a one-game playoff at Boston. They took two of the first three. The final game was one the team simply had to win. I remember people were shouting at the Tigers, you guys better do this. One fan leapt from the stands down and knelt in prayer next to the the dugout at the end of the game hoping that the Tigers could pull it out. On that final Sunday, 15,000 empty seats. A vivid reminder of the polarizing forces pulling apart a wounded burned-out city. Trailing eight to five in the bottom of the ninth of the fourth and final game, the Tigers rallied. With one out and men on first and second, scrappy second baseman Dick McAuliffe came to the plate. We're sitting right there in the dugout and bang there's a play boom boom and McAuliffe hits into his first double play in the whole year and all of a sudden it's over and I mean it was like from total excitement and knowing we're gonna tie the game up and now we're gonna go into extra innings to win the pennant and then boom it's over. I mean it's not pulling the plug. It's like getting shot in the back. At the end of the game disappointed fans crowded onto the field tore up turf. They reacted angrily. I mean really out of a sense of bitterness and disappointment. I've never seen so many grown men crying all my life. The mood in the locker room was just disbelief. There was such an incredible pennant race with four or five teams pounding down to the wire together and now it was over. It was you couldn't get it back. It was lost and these guys were just devastated by it. In the last months of 1967, bitter disappointment over the Tigers loss lingered amidst the ruins of a riot-torn Detroit. 1968 brought no relief. In January, the horror of the Vietnam War was brought home by reports of the Tet Offensive. News that hit this city with particular force. You had the Vietnam War that divided the country but really focused on a city like Detroit, a working class city where so much of the people that made up the army and the Marines came from cities like Detroit. It was crystallized to us as young men who were facing the draft board that this was not our fight. That if anything our fight was here in Detroit not dying for Uncle Sam. When you got a bunch of high school seniors, Vietnam was it's like in the air you breathe. Even the people who were in favor of the war or in favor at least of the service knew what the consequences could be. There were there were so many people coming back injured or dead. In Detroit, as in New York and San Francisco, the climate of change served as fuel for artistic fire. The city's dynamic music scene reflected the turbulent times. What hippies were about and what rock and roll was about was the same thing as the civil rights movement was about. It was about defying the authorities. I remember during the riots we got together we jammed and boy that that grooving at rhythm and blues thing took on a new velocity and new intensity and a new anger. From headquarters on West Grand Boulevard, only blocks from where the riots had begun, the rhythm of change spawned another kind of sound. A young man named Barry Gordy was building an empire with the Motown sound. Music that was black owned and brimming with hope. People would rush into the record shop they want this new Motown record. Do you have this new record by the Temptations? I heard this record in the car the other day and it sounded like smoke. With the promise of spring came a new baseball season and at Tiger Town, the Tigers longtime spring training facility in Lakeland, Florida, the players made a promise to themselves. We had a team meeting, Mickey Stanley, who was sitting there and just said regardless of what happens in the city in the clubhouse we didn't know on the field we're gonna win the World Series this year. We were just ready to go. We know this 68 was gonna be a special year and we started right here in spring training. There wasn't any doubt in my mind and the rest of the team that we're gonna be the champions. There was nobody gonna beat us. The team was singular in more than purpose. Their clubhouse was colorblind, free of the bigotry of former owner Walter Briggs, who once declared that only over his dead body would Negroes be allowed to play in his stadium. We loved each other. Gates Brown, Willie Horton. We had great characters on our ball club. We did everything together. I mean we were not a team that would say okay there's the blacks are gonna go one way, the whites gonna go, the Spanish gonna go. We were together. We partied together. We would go out to eat together. We would we would do everything together. We had guys that was good guys. They were guys that would stand up and they would you know watch your back so to speak. The racial harmony between the blacks and the clubhouse rarely reached beyond the walls of Tiger Stadium and into the streets of black Detroit. There were a lot of blacks that didn't give a rap about the Tigers winning or all of that. That was that was them. It wasn't us. I have a very clear memory of going to ball games at Tiger Stadium or Briggs Stadium then in the 50s and black people rooting for the or the the White Sox because they were very quick to sign great black players while the Tigers did not. But as Willie Horton's star rose so did black support for the team. I know a lot of blacks that I talked to when they would go to the ticket office would say I want to be in left field. I want to be as close to Willie Horton my idol and my hero as I can. Not surprisingly the 68th season was rooted in race from the start. In March the Kerner Commission on Civil Disorders issued its report decrying a divided nation in its words separate and unequal. Then on April 4th Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was gunned down in Memphis. That I can also feel in my own heart the same kind of feeling. I had a member of my family killed but he was killed by a white man. On the National Day of Mourning Tigers management insisted that the team practice. A decision that infuriated black members of the club. Dr. King's murder triggered a new wave of racial violence around the country igniting fears within Detroit's white community that blacks would exact revenge on Good Friday. There was a great deal of anger on part of folks within the community and felt that again here we go again. Well they slew the dreamer so if they did that to him what would they do to you or me? And it was a spur to more radical action by political activists in Detroit. There was more desperation. I think I carried a Smith and Wesson back then and I just put more bullets in my pocket because I wanted to be prepared to protect myself. I found that throughout that time going to the grocery store, going to the little neighborhood markets and walking around the community that everybody was more or less afraid to look at each other in the eye and you just sort of passed each other in the street. My parents moved during that winter, moved out to the suburbs after spending all their lives in Detroit. There was just the sense that among the white community that Detroit was over. As the 1968 season got rolling, the Tigers made good on their preseason promise. The team sprinted to a nine-and-one start fueled by late-inning heroics who became the hallmark of their season. We knew if we could stay close to people if we were within three runs in the seventh inning we're gonna beat them. Tigers are turning by one run four to three behind Baltimore. Here's Magic now waiting on a full count that everybody drove out. In 1968 we gave them something else to talk about and it wasn't that we were winning, it was how we were winning. We came back 40-some game after being behind seventh eighth and ninth inning. See what the Tigers did last night? They came back, they were down. We attributed a warrior attitude to those guys. I was so caught up in the energy, the excitement of the coming season that it was the first and only time in my life that I was able to either listen to on the radio, watch on television, or attend every single game of that season. Might be, could be, it's done! Every break, every time people got a minute they were talking about how well the Tigers were doing and everybody had transistors radios to their ear. Norman Cash coming to bat now. Trailing one to nothing in the sixth inning with nobody on base and one man down for Detroit. Every restaurant, people on buses, people on street corners, everywhere you went there's a transistor radio. Harwell and radio were a very important link and without any newspaper you didn't get word. His voice was sort of the music of that summer. Here's the wind up, the pitch. There's a long drive to deep right, it's out of here. I remember working the aisles as an usher and his voice was just all around you. ...pitches and Willie Swing, the long drive all the way to the left, maybe it's gone! It was like listening to God broadcasting Bill Spah. That's the 32nd home run for Willie Horton. And that one sails in over the head of McAllen. The year of the Tigers was threatened by one lost weekend in Oakland. The club had a nasty brawl with the A's and saw its American League lead shrink to just a half game. Worse, the heart and soul of the team, right fielder Al Kailine was hit by a pitch and fractured a forearm. Out for a minimum of five weeks. I think that everybody was always nervous about every single game while he was out because you never knew if this was going to come apart at some point if the wheels were suddenly going to come off. The son of a Baltimore broom maker, Al Kailine had joined the Tigers in 1953. And in 1955, before the age of 21, he won the American League batting title. Thirteen years later, he was recognized as an artist, a Rembrandt in right, known simply as six to his teammates. In 1968, only one piece was missing from a whole of fame career, a world championship. Al Kailine had everything that you'd want. The things I remember most about him was that throwing arm. He played right field. I never saw him make an error. He was a future Hall of Famer. He was one of the greats. And he was ours. Despite Kailine's injury, the Tigers remained on top of the American League throughout the summer as the anti-war and civil rights movements raged on. Already reeling from the senseless deaths of Dr. King and presidential candidate Robert Kennedy, the national psyche was assaulted once more in August with the beating of protesters at the Democratic Convention in Chicago. By the summer of 68, I was bone weary, both my body and my mind. I suppose my spirit as well. In city after city, America was on edge. Militant black leaders like H. Rapp Brown preached armed confrontation, exhorting followers to burn America down. I say violence is necessary. Violence is a part of America's culture. It is as American as cherry pie. American taught the black people to be violent. We will use that violence to rid ourselves of oppression if necessary. We will be free by any means necessary. Folks on the left held out the hope that this was going to be their moment. That where Johnson officials and many ordinary Americans saw apocalypse, they saw revolutionary possibility. They saw an opportunity to really change America in fundamental ways that would completely remake it. People expected that 1968 would be an even bigger and better rise. As the summer got warmer and warmer, I remember having this feeling that, oh, what if it happens again? But the violence that erupted in cities like Chicago, Cleveland, and Washington, D.C. in 1968 did not overtake Detroit. As the city's obsession with the Tigers shifted into overdrive, crowds black and white packed the ballpark at a record-setting pace. On July 19th, four days short of the first anniversary of the riots, Tiger Stadium was filled to capacity. I must have gone out to the park in 1968 about six times because I was involved with a bunch of other cultural activists who were all like, all hept up on baseball. But I could see it was new to them. But it was because Detroit was winning and everything, it became like a fad. It was like, you know, don't throw that brick, the Tigers are on. Hey, you know, let me check this out. Boy, did you see that? Oh, great. So it was kind of a thing like that. Everybody was proud of the Tigers. But, you know, at the same time, like I said, yeah, in the back of your mind, you know, wow, you know, Tigers, you know, such skin flits, such racists. But hey, you know, those are our boys on the field. The 68th season would be remembered as the year of the pitcher. Seven pitchers finished with earned run averages under two, and the Tigers' Denny McLean made history. When he wasn't on the mound, the cocky 24-year-old right-hander was drinking two dozen sodas a day, playing the organ at downtown clubs late into the night, flying his own plane, and hobnobbing with celebrities. McLean was untouchable for most of the year, 16-2 at the All-Star break. To McLean covering, and he's got it. 28 wins for Denny McLean. On September 14th in a nationally televised game against the Oakland A's, McLean went gunning for his 30th win, a milestone no pitcher had reached since Dizzy Dean 34 years earlier. Denny was just a magician, and he had tremendous confidence in himself. He was the only player on our ball club that year that had a great year. There was a lot of good years, but he had a great year. You gonna win the pennant in the New York series? I hope so. I hope we got a great shot at it now. I hope we do win it at home for the people of Detroit. Three days after McLean's 30th, the Tigers were poised to win their first pennant in 23 years. The smell of burnt-out buildings still lingered in the air as 46,000 fans made their way downtown. In the bottom of the ninth inning with the score tied, manager Mayo Smith thrilled the crowd by inserting the city's idol back in the lineup as a pinch hitter. Then, with the bases loaded... And the windup, and the pitch. He swings a line shot. Right field, the Tigers win it. Here comes K-line to score, and it's all over. Donnward singles, the Tigers mobbed down, K-line is score, the fans are steaming on the field, and the Tigers have won their first pennant since 1945. Let's listen to the badmothers here at Tigers Stadium. I went down there in the field, too, why not? And running into a lot of friends. And one of the guys I ran into was a Catholic priest from our parish who was dancing around and partying with everybody else. The joy that was just everywhere in the ballpark that night. It was like waking up from a nightmare and finding out that everything was going to come out all right. As soon as the last pitch was thrown, we all jumped in the car and everybody drove downtown. And there was just this mass of people downtown celebrating. I went back in the locker room where Willie and Gates and Jim Campbell, Al K-line and Mickey Lowledge, Bill Freehand. You never thought of color. You never thought of color. You never thought of the riots. They threw John Fetzer, who was the owner, into the whirlpool bath. Fetzer came in with water dripping off him, grabbed Mayo, hugged him and said, Mayo, you not only won the pennant, you might have saved this city. The midst of this mob, Governor Romney and Mayor Kavanaugh, how about if we can stage this about once a year? Yeah, and our arms are in good shape. The governor's in shape for next season. When they won, we ran out of our house down to Fankal Avenue, the same street where the National Guard vehicles had rolled on by, to the sound of honking horns and people screaming out their car windows. And we waved the V for victory sign. We were just playing ball. It wasn't until later on when people said they rallied around us, I guess I was too much interested in winning to worry about what was going on outside of the baseball. In the last year of the pure pennant race, the Tigers won the American League by 12 games. With 103 wins, the team set a home attendance record, leading the league in home runs, runs scored and fielding. They painted Tiger emblem right in the middle of the intersection of Michigan and Washington Boulevard, which was really the heart of downtown Detroit. And it seemed to reflect the festivity that everybody felt. It was like opening a Christmas present that you'd been looking at for months and months, and now you finally got to unwrap it. Heading into the World Series, Tiger's manager Mayo Smith faced an unusual problem. How to get his superstar back into the lineup? I went into the manager's office and said to Mayo Smith, Mayo, I know you want to try to get me in the lineup, but you can't take these guys out. And he said, I'm going to get you in the lineup somehow. Somehow I'm going to get you in the lineup. K-line was going to play. Here's a guy that's been an all-star and sure hall of famer. He's going to play. And there's a drive to deep right center. Smith's decision was stunning. Shift the team's gold glove center fielder, Mickey Stanley, to shortstop, so K-line could reclaim his spot in right. Stanley, the team's best all-around athlete, had started at short in the final six meaningless regular season games. The pressure on him during the World Series, however, would be enormous. I don't think there's ever been a decision like that made in the history of baseball, a dramatic decision like that to move an outfielder to play infield, a key spot. It'd be different if it was third base. I mean, shortstop is so important to any outcome of a game. It was, in looking back on it, it had to be one of the greatest gambles in baseball history. We thought that that was going to seriously affect Detroit. We thought that that was going to weaken them. The 68th series would pit two teams that had been eyeing each other for weeks. The Tigers against the heavily favored defending champion St. Louis Cardinals, shooting for their third World Series title in five years. Boasting speed, pitching, and attitude, the Cardinals reflected the burgeoning black power movement in sports. What I thought about was that the Tigers were a good ball club, but probably not as good as some of the clubs that are in the National League that we have to face day in and day out. And I really went in there with the cocky idea that they need to be thinking about us more than we need to be thinking about them. Game one showcased the year's two best pitchers, McLean against the ace of the Cardinals and their undisputed leader, Bob Gibson. The plate was his and his mound was his office. Bob was such a competitor that that competition poured out of every pore, not only to the opposition, but to his teammates. He would intimidate, and when he was pitching, he would intimidate the, all right guys, tonight is win night. The National League Cy Young Award winner, Gibson had won 22 games in 68, 13 by shutout, with a league record 1.12 earned run average. His presence on the mound posed a dilemma for black fans of the Tigers. Here's Bob Gibson, here's Flood, here's Lou Brock, and they're great athletes, you know. But we want them to be great. We want them to have a great time, but we want the Tigers to win. Because we have Gates Brown, we have Willie Horton, and we have Earl Wilson. I want Bob Gibson to pitch a no-hitter, but I want Detroit to win one to nothing. So you want to have the best of both worlds there. Gibson humbled the Tigers with a performance that many people still call the most overpowering in World Series history. En route to an easy 4-0 win, Gibson recorded his 15th strikeout, tying a World Series record. Catcher Tim McCarver tried to get his pitcher's attention. And he comes out in front of the plate, and he's got the ball in his hand. I said, give me the ball. He says, no, I'm going to get the ball. Give me the ball. He says, well, something. I said, no, give me the ball. He says, look behind you. So I look behind me, and I don't know what he wants me to look at. No, the scoreboard. I look at the scoreboard, and it said that I tied a Ku-Fax record. I said, fine, give me the ball. Norm Cash is up next. His 17th strikeout was Willie Horton, and it was a slider. The slider was so explosive, as was his fastball. But I still remember two outs, bottom of the ninth, and the breaking ball. Horton, a big, strong right-handed hitter, goes, he almost knew the ball was going to hit him. Well, it broke so much that it broke over the plate for a strike. I was on the on-deck circle when there were two outs, and Willie Horton was up to the plate. Now, I never root against a teammate. I guarantee I wasn't rooting for him. I said to myself, Willie, better you than me. You saw that, and you just shut your eyes and said, this is going to be no contest. I'm telling you, at the end of Game 1, we felt like, oh, this might be a sweep. Left-hander Mickey Lulich took the mound in Game 2. Late in the season, he had emerged from the shadow of McLean, going 10-2 down the stretch. On this day, Lulich was in total control, pitching a complete game to even the series at one apiece. As the series moved to Detroit, the assembly line seemed to shut down, as black and white alike now turned their gaze in one direction, only to see the Cardinals put on a show, led by left-fielder Lou Brock, who tormented the Tigers at the plate and on the base pads. When the Cardinals went up 3-1, people would say, see, the American League, they're not progressive. They don't have the great black stars and the Latino stars, the way the National League does, and they're going to lose again, just like they did last year when the Red Sox lost to St. Louis. Bob Gibson sets an all-time World Series record with his seventh consecutive victory, and St. Louis now leads three games to one. After Game 4, when McLean just got shelled and Gibson shut him down again, I think the feeling was, we're going to get humiliated. I mean, we've waited all this time, and they're taking our pants off right in front of the home crowd. With the team down three games to one, many of the club's corporate and VIP ticket holders had jumped off the bandwagon, replaced by Detroit's hardcore faithful, both black and white. There was an electricity in the ballpark that day. We had to win. We had to win that game, or it was over. The fans were just settling into their seats for Game 5 when singer Jose Feliciano sat down in center field, guitar in hand. Jose, can you see? Jose Feliciano's rendition of the anthem was almost an invasion of that safe haven that baseball represented, of tradition. It scared people and made them uncomfortable. The middle ground wasn't holding. There was the hawks, there was the doves. Obviously, by doing this, Jose put himself on the side of the doves. What a moment. And the rocket's red glare... I thought it was the worst thing I ever heard in my life. And when he was singing, everybody just kind of turned and looked at each other. I mean, talking about pay status quo, eat, drink, eat, go, eat me. I'm going to do the Star Spangled Banner in this absolutely irreverent, bombastic way. Just blew it to smithereens. God, did I love that. The switchboards lit up, and different civic clubs across the country passed resolutions that people were going to have to sing the national anthem. They have to sing it note for note the way it should be. Anybody else would be thrown in jail. I was very much of a routine pitcher. The game's starting at 1 o'clock, so I got to be in the bullpen at quarter to one, and I'm following my routine by the numbers. We have to stop for the national anthem. Well, okay, I can live with that. I still got 10 minutes to get ready. Well, Jose decided to do the Ten Commandment version of the national anthem, which took forever. And all of a sudden the umpire comes down and says, Mick, we got to go. Time to start the game. I says, I'm not ready to pitch yet. And the home of the brave in your eyes. I gave up three runs in the first inning, and it's all because of Jose. Now it was like 1967 all over again. A city and its team were backed up against a wall. The turning point of game five and the series came in the fifth inning, with the Tigers trailing 3-2. With one out, Lou Brock doubled his 11th hit of the series. The next batter, Julian Javier, ripped a single to left, right at Willie Horton. I didn't think the Tigers had a chance to get Brock out. Brock was not only fast, but he accelerated so quickly. Javier hit a screaming line drive over my head, but I knew the shot stopped playing right behind me. Leaped. So when he leaped, that freezes the base runner, but you got to make sure he doesn't catch it. And then there was a race home. When you play tight games, especially when you have blowouts, but you always think cute things might happen. My job hit Coyote right here. I remember sitting in the upper deck on a step, looking down from the first baseline, I could see the whole play forming in front of me. And I framed the vision and thinking, Horton's got a chance. Brock's not going full speed. Oh my goodness, Brian has the play block. He's out. If you look at the film, you see us spin around, neither of us fall down. And then Lou starts back to touch one plate again. Then I tag him. And he said, well, if you tagged me the first time, why did you tag me the second time? And my answer is, if you thought you touched home plate the first time, why did you come back to touch it a second time? In Bolden, the conservative Mayo Smith rolled the dice once more. Still behind 3-2 in the seventh, Smith let the weak-hitting Lowlitch bat for himself. He glooks one to right. Ron Davis just missed with a diving bounce. And Mayo Smith's gamble has paid off. Then, with the bases loaded, the 33-year-old K-line stepped to the plate, the defining moment of his 22-year career at hand. K-line loops are hitting the right side. I swear, we must have had 300,000 people in that stadium because so many people had come up to me and said, I was at the stadium to see you get that base hit. And I said, man, we don't hold that many people here. Following the critical 5-3 win, it was back to St. Louis. With McLean on the mound, the Tigers exploded in game six behind Jim Northrup's grand slam home run in a 10-run third inning, setting up a seventh and deciding game. Only two teams in World Series history had ever come back to win from 3-1 deficits. And only the 58 Yankees had won game seven on the road. There is a universal, unifying appeal to game seven in any sport. And on this day in Detroit, the barriers between black and white broke down as a city on fire shut down to watch its team do or die. Two or three of us were working that day at the paper, and we sneak off on our assignments and go to Howard Johnson's on Grand Boulevard to watch the end of the game. Afternoon game, my dad was working. I was all by myself. And it was just an incredible moment in my life. The matchup. The two best pitchers of the series, Gibson and Lowlitch. Gibson working on a streak of seven straight World Series wins. Lowlitch working on just two days' rest. This whole area is a blue collar town, and Lowlitch was a blue collar type of pitcher. Mickey had a little bit of a gut to him. He kind of wore his pants below his belt. A little bit of a waddle when he walked. And so you could relate to Lowlitch. Roger Maris had told us that we're not going to have any problems with McLean. We've got enough left-handed power to handle him. The problem we're going to have with that team is Lowlitch. Lowlitch is nasty. And boy was he ever right. I mean, I wasn't nervous. I slept like a baby the night before. My wife paced the floor for the whole night. I actually thought we were going to win it. And I knew we were going to have a fighter on our hands because of Lowlitch. I think in retrospect that we relied on the fact that we had Gibson in reserve. That once we had a three-game-to-one lead, we knew that if we lost games five and six, that Bob would come back and Bob would win. Because Bob was unbeatable. Nobody beat Gibson. No Game 7 had ever started this way. Scoreless through six innings, Gibson and Lowlitch matched each other nearly pitch for pitch. With two out in the top of the seventh, singles by first baseman Norm Cash and Horton brought Michigan native Jim Northrup to the plate. When I went up there, I'm talking to myself, he's going to throw you his best fastball first pitch. You better be ready. Because if he gets that one by you, you're in real deep trouble. Amid late afternoon shadows that hung over a rain-soaked turf, Northrup ripped a drive to center and Cardinals gold glove outfielder Kurt Flood. Running on the heels of Cash, Horton, who had journeyed in his uniform to the heart of the riots a year before, wore it home. He hit the ball. And when he hit it, I was gone. I didn't hesitate. I remember when Northrup hit that ball to center field and you saw Flood turn on it and lose his balance and the ball go over his head. I just sat there and I said, oh my God, they're going to win this thing. I just was pounding on the floor. I could not stop. That had to be the highlight. That could have been the highlight of my life right there. That triple was incredible. It was then up to Lowlitch, the national guardsman and eventual World Series MVP to close out the Cardinals. When McCarver popped up the ball and I caught it and Lowlitch jumped on me, that's the lightest Mickey Lowlitch has ever been. And when Bill Frehams got under that pop-up, squeezed it for the last out, outside, nice bright summer afternoon, the town erupted instantly. It's like everybody was poised, waiting for the third out, saying, okay, stand by the window and as soon as it's over, open the window and we'll dump stuff out and we'll throw stuff out and we'll scream and shout and we'll boil into the streets. There was this inability to exhale until after that game was over. When they had crowds that were jubilant, dancing in the streets, people were relieved that nothing, quote, bad had happened again. It was just an extraordinary series with the backdrop being the social situation that this country was in at the time. We knew the team usually flew on United Airlines, so any United Airlines jet that we saw on the runway, we were running up to. And to see the startled looks of the passengers inside looking out at us and seeing what looked like an unruly mob running after the planes must have been as jarring for them as it was as exciting for us. One flight I guess landed and everybody thought it was our plane and as it was taxing up to the area, I don't know how they did it, but some guys got up on the wing of the plane and were looking in the windows to see all the ballplayers. How does it feel to be responsible for closing an airport? What really struck me is how the blacks and whites were both celebrating. You know, they were hugging each other. I mean, like, here's a year before just about and they were at each other's throat. It was like this big brotherhood. This was a true brotherhood that forgot about the problems of society, that forgot about what had happened in Detroit before. I think for that one year people could tune in on the radio or TV and have a common interest to root for. They'd want Willie Horton, the home runner, Jim Northup, if he had one, whether he was black or white, it didn't make any difference. They were tigers and people could rally behind that one cause. For months after that, everybody was just in such a feel-good mood because the Tigers won the World Series. So it was great, it was nice, but of course then 69 rolled around and things kind of went back to normal. I mean, if we can come back after the devastation of 67 and win a pennant and a World Series, then there's possibility all over the place. Everybody rallied around. The fans were great. And maybe we had something to do, I say we the Detroit Tigers, we the Detroit Tigers had something to do that maybe cooling off the city of Detroit and maybe preventing another riot. I'd just like to think, in my mind at least, that black folk's problems are a lot more important than a baseball game or one season of baseball. I think that there was just no turning back from the damage that the riots of 67 did to Detroit. In the years that followed, the riots never stopped. The crime, the homicide rate, the rate of white departures to the suburbs just kept on spiraling, kept going up and up and up. And the 68 experience was kind of forgotten. But for those few months that surrounded that pennant race and that World Series, this was a wonderful place to live again. And it's all over. Just 14 months earlier, these same streets had been a battleground for the most devastating riot in U.S. history. Now bullets and battle cries of rebellion had become confetti and cheers. Black and white united, shoulder to shoulder. The racial divide for one euphoric moment closed at Michigan and Trumbull, all along Woodward Avenue. The summer of 67 carved a hole in the heart of this most American of American cities, never ultimately to be repaired. But in the long, hot summer of 68, Detroit stayed cool. High ball, run. There he almost went. He missed it, but over his head. Full run to get a score. Twenty-five Tigers, united, colorful and colorblind, may not have saved the Motor City, but there's little doubt they helped it to heal. This has been a presentation of HBO Sports, the network of champions. This has been a presentation of HBO Sports, the network of champions.