 I'm going to briefly talk about Hawaii, right? And the reason why is because the Hawaiian experience is, I think, emblematic of American foreign policy in this period. And so what happens just if you think about the history of Hawaii, what's really interesting about the history of Hawaii is that the history of Hawaii, if you read a book about it, starts with when Captain Cook discovered Hawaii in 1778, right? So Hawaii had been there all along, but it didn't have a history until Captain Cook showed up, right? So that means that history doesn't start until the people show up, right? But at any rate, what happens is that Captain Cook makes contact with the Hawaiians, and Hawaiians were divided into a bunch of kind of little kingdoms. And one of those kings, Kamehameha, is going to form a relationship with the British that allows him to arm himself, which then consequently allows him to conquer all of the islands. So before the Europeans came, the islands were dominated by all these different little tribes, little groups, right? But after this one man, King Kamehameha, was able to benefit from that by expanding his military power, he conquered all of the islands, and then he established the Kingdom of Hawaii. The Kingdom of Hawaii is established in the model of Europe's kingdom, right? So what that tells us then is that the Kingdom of Hawaii was never really a Hawaiian instrument. It was always something that was kind of brought in from the West, right? But at any rate, what happens is that early in the 19th century, there'll be an influx of missionaries from the United States, and their mission, essentially, is going to be to make the Hawaiians into Christians, okay? And they actually get in good with the royal family, and so they have a huge influence, all right? And they're able to kind of structure the government of the Kingdom of Hawaii. But again, their interest is mostly in establishing Christianity, and not necessarily anything else, but their children, they're going to be there long enough to have children, and their children are not going to be interested in spreading Christianity. They're going to be interested in making money, right? And so they basically work their way into sovereignty over Hawaii, right? And the way that they do that is that they rig it so that they can get the land into their own hands, and then they use it to grow sugar, right? The thing about sugar, keeping in mind the era that we're in, is that there's a competition... Well first off, Americans don't make sugar, right? So they have to import it, and they can import it either from Cuba, or now they can import it from Hawaii, right? So Hawaii's really in competition with Cuba, right? And keep in mind that the sugar industry in Hawaii, just like the sugar industry in Cuba, is controlled by Americans, okay? They're not necessarily American citizens, but they think of themselves as Americans, okay? And so what happens is that they're able to make an agreement with the United States government called a reciprocity treaty, right? The reciprocity treaty says that there will be no tariff barriers between the United States and Hawaii, right? So that means that the Americans can, or the Hawaiians can export sugar to the United States without tariffs, and then Americans can export things to Hawaii without tariffs, right? Well the problem here is that that's great for the Hawaiians because the American sugar market is enormous, but it doesn't really help Americans because the Hawaiian market is tiny, right? So even though the Americans have this advantage, it's not really seen as any great advantage. And the American Congress is not really that interested in Hawaii. They don't become interested in Hawaii until after the Spanish-American War because they don't see anything there of any value. It becomes a value to them after the Spanish-American War because now the United States has an Asian empire and they need a place to stop where they can refuel in between North America and Asia, the Philippine Islands, right? Okay, well at any rate, what happens is then they let this reciprocity treaty lapse, which means then that now all of a sudden the Hawaiian sugar industry can't compete in America and the Hawaiian economy collapses. And what will happen is that these missionaries' children, called the Mission Boys, are going to form what they call a Hawaiian League with the intent of taking over the kingdom of Hawaii in order to be able to push for annexation to the United States, right? Why would they want to be annexed to the United States? Well because then there would be no tariff barriers, right? You guys get what I'm saying? So eventually what ends up happening is that there is an incident where the queen of Hawaii, this woman here, Liliuokalani, is going to be overthrown by Americans, right? And then after that, they establish a republic that lasts a short period, kind of like what happened in Texas and in California, right? Then Hawaii will be annexed after the Spanish-American War.