Okay, so this is the first beginning of the second half of the U.S. history Survey, U.S. history 2. And in order to be able to move into the subject matter, we need to understand where to begin. And so generally speaking, our subject begins after the Civil War. But if we just start there and ignore everything that went before, then we really won't understand where we are. So the first lecture then is going to be talking about the first part of the first lecture. We'll be talking about the major issues of the founding of the United States and the differences that eventually led to the Civil War. And then the second half of today's lecture, we'll talk about some themes that will be following through the course. So let's go ahead and get started with. I have to share the screen here. Let's go ahead and get started with some of the things that, that characterize the United States before the Civil War. So one thing, that one way that we can approach understanding the United States is by understanding that there has always been. The United States essentially has always had a split personality. The United States is really two different things at once, at least. And this goes all the way back to the first colonies. So if we look at the first colonies, there were first colonies in Virginia, and then there were colonies in New England. And the colonies in Virginia were founded to make money. The whole idea was to make money. And the colonies in New England were founded as a kind of a cultural experiment to establish a, an Enlightenment, excuse me, and a model Christian society. So, so as those two regions develop, they develop differently both culturally and politically and also in terms of economically. Right. Because in the south, in the Tidewater region, it was possible to make quite a bit of money from the land using plantation agriculture, but that was not possible in New England. And so New England, the economy of New England tended toward what will eventually become the industrialization, whereas the economy of the south depended more on plantation agriculture. And that meant slave labor eventually. Right. So, so we see that basically in the, in the north, we see developing a kind of a proto industrial society, and in the south, we see more of a kind of a continuation of the medieval sort of feudal system. These, these two economies produce two separate societies essentially. And if you look at these, if you look at the needs of these two separate societies, they need different policies. So the colonies in the north and the south were able to come together somewhat reluctantly, to repel the British, to fight against the British for the Revolution. But once the Revolution had been won, there was really no sense of unity among the different colonies. At that point then there were states among the different states. And so the very first few years after the Revolution were quite tenuous in terms of whether or not the Union could survive. And, and that's eventually what led to the calling of the Constitutional Convention because the Union that they had wasn't working. So they were. The, the purpose of the convention was to try to, to fix the, what they call the Articles of Confederation at that time. And instead of what that they created a Constitution. Now again, the, the story of the creation of the Constitution is that when the Constitution was finally completed, the people who signed it didn't all agree on what it actually created because a lot of it was left unstated. And it was deliberately left unstated because if it had been deliberately stated, then some of the states wouldn't have signed on. So, so some of the major differences then that come out of the Constitution Convention are going to be the relationship of the different governments in this system. What the system created was a federal system. A federal system essentially is a two layer system where you have the states on one level who are essentially autonomous and independent over their own affairs, except for the things that, that the states, that the states can't do on their own, like set, you know, national policy, set policy for all the states having to do with commerce and taxation and armies, defense and things like that. So, so that's what the federal government is for the national government. So the federal, the state governments are really the, the, the primary governments of the people. And the national government was just kind of a, an overarching confederation or an overarching structure that was meant to accomplish only those things that states couldn't do. And you know, that's, that's explicitly stated in the, the 10th Amendment, which says that all the power not specifically granted to the federal government in the Constitution is reserved to the states. All right, so then the understanding that comes out of the Constitutional Convention is on the one hand, the federal government is actually the supreme government. It says right in the Constitution that it's the supreme government. But then the other point of view is that no, the states are actually the supreme governments because they created the federal system. If they created the federal system, then they can also do away with the federal system. And that when the federal, the Constitution says that the national government is supreme, it only means supreme in those areas where the Constitution specifically grants power to the, to the federal government, to the national government. So, so when we look at, for example, if we were to look at a, struck a diagram of the structure of the United States today, we would say, okay, here's a national government on top, and then here are the states down here on the bottom. And the arrows would point from the federal government to the states, essentially implying that that power flows from the federal government to the state governments. But when the Constitution was written, many people would have said, no, the arrows point the other way. That authority goes from the individual states to the federal government. Or some people would say there wouldn't even be any arrows. They're just separate governments with separate jurisdictions. The problem here is that, is that what really ends up, the question ends up becoming, well, which government really is supreme? Is it the federal government or is it the state government? And that's going to be an argument, a, a conflict that really won't be settled until after the Civil War. All right, we'll talk more about that in a few, few minutes. But the other question then becomes, well, okay, if all of the states have come together to create this union, doesn't that mean that states can actually break the union? Doesn't that mean that if a state feels that its interests are not being served by being in this union, shouldn't they be able to leave the union? And the Constitution doesn't say one way or the other, and again explicitly, because if the Constitution said once you're in, you can't get out, some of the states would not have signed on. So, so then there's this disagreement about, first of all, what is the supreme government in the United States? And also is the federal government, Is, is it, or excuse me, is the union permanent or can it be broken? Okay, and these, this is going to be a rising tension that eventually will break the United States into the Civil War. Okay, so, so that's one, one kind of area where we can see this American split personality. Right. Actually, there's a couple that we just talked about. One is, is the United States a plantation agriculture economy and agrarian economy with kind of a feudal social structure, or is the United States an industrializing commercial economy that is moving more and more towards modern day liberalism? And the answer is yes, it's both, really. Right, and then the question is, is the United States just a union of independent states or is the United States a unified nation consisting of states? And the answer to that is yes. Okay, so we can see then that if you ask the question, is it one or is it the other? You can only answer yes, it's both. It's both at the same time. All right? And that's gonna, that's the split personality of America. And it will actually it manifest in everything in, in the United States because, because the United States essentially always is at least two things at once. All right, so that's something we'll see as we go through the course. The next thing you know, slavery was a huge issue. Slavery was seen to be necessary by the colonists in the south because they needed labor. And this labor could be imported from Africa, usually through the Caribbean. And, and that meant that, that meant that the, the economic well being of the south depended on slave labor. And so slavery was, was something that the Southern states were bound to protect because it was in their economic interests. Slavery was not necessary as much or even really at all in the other areas of the United States, particularly the north, where they were, it was a commercial, sometimes a kind of beginning manufacturing society and slaves were not really that useful in that society. And then, and then beginning in the late 18th century and moving forward, there was actually a movement kind of arising out of the Enlightenment that, that, that proposed that slavery was actually wrong, that slavery wasn't, was an evil. If we say that all men are created equal, how can we then say that some people should be enslaved and others not? That if all men are created equally endowed with liberty, then every. That includes people that are enslaved, right? So there's this sense of immorality that arises and that leads to a movement called abolitionism. So, so there's, there's people mostly in the north who are, who are in favor of abolishing slavery. And then there are people in the south who are desperate to save slavery because they think that's what they need to do in order to, to survive economically. And then, and then they respond to the criticisms of the abolitionists by their own kind of intellectual justifications for slavery. All right? And, and the, the one thing that we want to do right off the bat is to separate the issue of slavery from the issue of racism. Okay? Because, because slavery in the United States became race based, it became it. There was a certain period of time and certain places in the United States where if you were black, you could not be free. It was against the law. Okay, so, so, so race, race becomes a determinant of slavery. But racism and slavery are two different things. So, so one of the things that we will look at, for example, is abolitionists who say, okay, well this, the, the people from Africa should not be enslaved, but that doesn't mean they're equal to us. And so when we look at racism, we, we see that that racism was really built into kind of the British system, that the British point of view, and the United States inherited that. So, so even when we get to the Civil War and we're talking about abolishing slavery, many people are still arguing that black people should not be given the, the, the, you know, the franchise, the right to vote because they're not capable of self government. So that's, this, that's, this is this kind of view of, of a certain group of people being less than. And, and it really is this kind of manifestation of white, white privilege, I guess you could say, which we'll talk about here again before we're done today. All right, so, so slavery then is going to create a wedge between the states that nobody will be able to overcome. And then the last thing having to do with foreign policy. The United States in the beginning was a. Essentially neutral. The United States refused to engage in, in European intrigues. That was a wise decision by President Washington and it kept the United States out of European intrigues and it, and it allowed the United States to expand on the North American continent. But what, one of the things that will happen is that as the United States becomes more prosperous, it also becomes more aggressive. Right. And, and so the idea eventually will, will be in the beginning. The, the idea is that, well, we just don't want to get involved in your affairs over in Europe and we're just going to mind our own business to the Monroe Doctrine that says that, well, okay, we don't want to get involved in your affairs in Europe, but we don't want you to be involved in any affairs here in the Americas. That's what the Monroe Doctrine says. Right. So that's a little bit more, that's, that's quite a bit more aggressive because the United States is saying, look, you keep your hands off the north, the American continents, the Americas. And, and if you don't, well, there's, there's really no, there's no specific consequence except that there's an implication that that would be something that the United States would be opposed to. All right. And so that's much more aggressive than just, you know, you, you mind your business now mind mine. Okay. And that's going to. Eventually it's going to, it's going to develop into an idea, a sense of mission in the United States, that the United States is essentially at the pinnacle of civilization, human development and progress. And that, that is the, it's the, the really the duty of the United States to spread its institutions everywhere. Right now. It's not necessarily the, the mission of the United States to rule everywhere, but it Is the mission of the United States to allow or to make it possible for everybody to be ruled in like manner, as Jefferson said, to the United States? Okay, so, so, so then when we ask our question in terms of foreign policy, is the United States a rapacious imperial predator because this is why people actually build empires in the 19th century? Or is the United States a beacon of freedom, justice, liberty and equality? And the answer is yes, that United States is driven both by economics and by this idealism. Right. Actually both internally and externally. Okay, but that's going to lead to a lot of misunderstanding about American foreign policy because Americans will go all over the world saying, well, we stand for freedom, justice, liberty, equality, and at the same time going to, we're going to actually take control of your economy and, and, and take. Use your resources for our own benefit. Right. So the United States is, is actually both of those things. Right. And we'll again talk more about that on a different day. All right. Questions? I can't. You can't answer questions because we're not actually meeting. Sorry. Okay, so now the, all of these things come together and, and erupt into the Civil War will be. The Civil War will be won by the north, obviously. And what the result of that is going to be is that the United States then will, the north essentially will, because of its population, will be able to control the destiny of the United States. And what will, what that will mean will be that the United States will become an industrial power. The United States. The economy of the United States will really be based on, on industry and, and places like the south where they grow cotton. And those sorts of things will be like an internal colony for, for the United States. So that, for example, the manufacturing plants of the north will get their resources from the south and then in return they will sell their goods in the South. So the south essentially becomes a colony of the rest of the United States. And then another consequence of the Civil War is going to be that the argument about which government is supreme will essentially be settled. And the answer will be it's the national government. The national government is supreme and the Union is permanent, but the effect is not going to really be noticed in terms of how actual people sense government in the United States until, you know, beginning, I guess, in World War I, but, but not really into, in a big way until, until the New Deal and in World War II. Okay, so, so when we think today of this big national government as kind of like an imperial government, right. People at the beginning of our period in 1870, say, would not have thought that they knew there was a federal government, but it was, it was a far away government. And my government was the county government or the state government or something like that. And the federal government was, was far away. Okay? So even though we see this, this kind of settlement of the idea of supremacy by the Civil War, we won't see the federal government begin to. Sorry, we won't see the, the federal government begin to, to assume the kinds of power that it has today until later in the 20th century. All right, so then there is the abolition of slavery and the definition of citizenship. This is where we get the idea that everybody born in the United States is a citizen because most of the slaves were born in the United States. And so in order to make them citizens, we had to define that they had to have been born here. And then also that's. So that's the 13th and the 14th amendment. Excuse me, the 13th and 14th amendment. Right, the 15th. The 14th amendment also, actually, I've got them backwards. The slavery is abolished in the 13th. Citizenship is defined in the 15th. The 14th is equal protection. And that's going to be a really significant change in American government and the way Americans practice liberty essentially, because it guarantees that everybody will be treated equally under the law. Okay. And, and that the government can't make any distinction based on any, any kind of characteristic. So, for example, and it was originally intended that you can't, you can't say that white people get more protection than black people because black people are black. But it actually will be extended later to things like the civil rights movement, to, to, you know, equal voting, things like that for other groups, not just blacks. And also, I mean, it was a couple of years ago, I guess, where they, the Supreme Court said that states could not make rules against homosexual marriage because that would mean that homosexuals were being treated differently than everybody else. Right. So it's the 14th amendment that becomes the basis then for a kind of an expanding democracy. The United States is a very important amendment. But. All right, so that's the effect of it. But the immediate effect of it was a backlash. Essentially. The United States supported civil rights in the south until there were economic problems in the north. And then the Republican party essentially turned its back on Reconstruction and left the south essentially to its own devices, which meant the imposition of Jim Crow and the denial of civil rights and civic equality until late in. Later in the 20th century. Right. And so that's something that we'll have to deal with later in our course. Right. Again. So foreign policy will be based on industry and commerce rather than export agriculture. And the United States will, once the west is. Has been fully exploited, I guess you could say, the United States will turn its eyes overseas and will become an imperial power, like the European imperial powers, the industrial powers in Europe. All right, so the United States then, because it is an industrial power, will also become a, A, an imperial power. Okay, so. So that's, that's essentially the, that's, you know, US History one in a nutshell. All right, and so, so we're going to move on from there then to talk about some themes of the course. All right, so. So I've actually been teaching this course for a long time, and it's come to me. I, I've concluded that there are certain themes that characterize, that can kind of help us to, to understand American history, because they're like threads that run through all of the events that happen in the United States from 1870 so until the present. Right. So these themes then are mission and manifest destiny, industrialization, imperialism, and race. Okay, let's talk about each one of these things individually. We already kind of mentioned beginning the idea of mission. The idea of mission comes from really. I mean, if you go all the way back, the idea of mission comes from the Bible, because there's a story in the Bible where Jesus, when he's going to heaven, he tells his followers that you need to go out and make Christians of everybody. You need to go out and make believers, disciples of all the nations. Right. And the reason why we would think about that in terms of our history is because Europeans, Europe was essentially dominated by Christian ideology throughout, from that period on, really throughout the Middle Ages and into the early modern period. And the kind of underlying. One of the underlying basis of Christianity was this sense of mission, that, that even though Europe was, you know, a backward, poor kind of corner of the world, say, for example, in 1500, they still had this sense that their, their mission was to spread Christianity around the world. And so when the Spanish came to America, they came to America to make money, but they also came to America to make disciples. Right. And they were driven. They were serious about this mission. Right. That they were serious about spreading their superior ideology. Okay. Which was their religion. Okay. And then we also kind of see that when we see the settlement of New England, the Puritans come to New England. What is their goal? Why do they come here? Well, they want to establish a model Christian society. They want to establish a society that will be so blessed that everybody will realize that their blessing comes from. From living A model Christian lifestyle. Okay. And so they, they, they said of themselves and other people will say later that they are going to create a city upon a hill. Right. A city upon a hill is a biblical image of the city. Actually, you think about Jerusalem is on a hill, right? A. Okay. So the city on a hill is so, so prosperous and so blessed that everybody in the world looks at that and says, I want to be like that. And how do you become like that? Well, you become a Christian. Right. So, so there's this sense of mission that is kind of implanted in American, in the American founding. Okay. But at the same time, like we go from say around 1600 or so up until the time of the founding of the United States, there's going to be a major intellectual shift in Europe. And that shift is going to be away from being a religious centered culture to a culture that's based on reason and science. And that's what we call the Enlightenment. Right. The Enlightenment is the idea that we're enlightened. We're no longer darkened by the superstition of religion, but we're enlightened. And what will happen with that shift in intellectual pursuit or identity, I guess, is going to be a shift in sense of mission. So the United States, when it comes into being, will still have a sense of mission, but their mission is not going to be a Christian mission. The mission is going to be a mission to spread the ideals of the American Revolution or liberty. Right. So you can see on the, on the slide there where I wrote liberty with an exclamation point. Right. Liberty is essentially the ideals upon which the United States was founded. That the United States was founded really as the first, the first political entity that was based on these liberal ideas that came from Europe. And the ideas are democracy, secularism, capitalism. Right. So the very first country in the modern world that's based on all three of those principles together is the United States. Okay. And when the American revolutionaries won their revolution, even when they were fighting the revolution, one of the things that will happen over that period of time from from 1776 to 1783, is going to be that Americans will come to believe that the revolution that they're fighting isn't just against Britain, it's against the whole old order. And, and they will have this sense that once they, the United States becomes liberated, that, that they're, they have a mission to spread that liberation everywhere else. Right. So, so in, in our, in historically speaking, the French Revolution was pretty much a direct result of their support for the United States in the American Revolution. But what's ironic is that when the French Revolution began as a revolution of liberty, it was egged on by Americans by Thomas Jefferson and Tom Payne who were saying, yeah, this is, this is the, the spark of liberty was struck in America, but it's going to spread everywhere. So, so it started here, but now it's, it's going to, it's going to happen in, in France and then later in England and throughout Europe and throughout Latin America. And eventually the whole world will be blessed with this idea of liberty with an exclamation point like the United States. Right. And that's going to then evolve into an American ideal, almost a religious belief, that it is the destiny of America to expand not just economically and not just geographically, but in terms of the influence of its institutions. So the American movement into the west is characterized by this idea of Americans spreading their superior revolution institutions throughout the west and, and eventually that it would happen anywhere. And that's where we come up with the idea of Manifest Destiny. So the Manifest Destiny as you guys understand it kind of only on a one sided way is that the United States sees itself as having a God given right to subdue the North American continent from coast to coast. Right? That is one sense of Manifest Destiny, but that's not the original sense. The original sense of Manifest Destiny was that the United States was a temple of liberty and that eventually everybody would want to be in this temple and that you couldn't get into this temple unless you were ready. Right? So, so the, the main thing here about Manifest Destiny is we think of Manifest Destiny. We're taught in school that Manifest Destiny essentially is an aggressive ideology, that it's the destiny of the United States to overrun the continent whether they like it or not. Right. But that's not what the original idea was. The original idea was that everybody would want it and you couldn't get it unless you were ready for it. Okay. So, so then what we see then is with this idea of mission and Manifest Destiny, we see two different visions of it. Right. On the one hand, it's as a kind of a civilizing mission. This is kind of hard to see on this blue. I don't know why it's blue, but anyway, this is from the, the article that where the, the word manifesting was actually used. Right. And what you see here is in that the far reaching, the boundless future will be the area of American greatness. Right. The main thing here is that we're looking at the spread of the American idea as a kind of almost like a religion, right? Like the expansion of the Christian religion into the Christian empire. Right. And so here you can see this representation of how Americans thought of the United States. That the Union was within the Temple of Liberty, essentially, that the temple itself was the federal government and that the states were the worshipers in the temple. Okay. So that's a kind of a. More of a kind of an idealistic look at Manifest Destiny. Now let's take a look at after the. Or actually even during the Mexican American War, there's this idea that the untransacted destiny of the American people is to subdue the continent, to rush over this vast field. And you can, you can read this. All these slides are on the website, right? But, but here is a divine task, immortal mission, right? That it's our mission to, to, to subdue the continent. That's a bit more aggressive than just saying that everybody wants to be like us. Right? Okay. And then, and then we can see the, the kind of depiction of this. And, and by looking at this next painting that I'm going to show you, this is the way Americans thought of American progress moving from the east to the west, right? You can see, you know, in the east, where the United States is, where civilization is, it's light. There's. Everything's clean and orderly. And in the west, what. It's dark and, and there's savages and animals, right? And, and you see American progress, which is this kind of blonde blimp moving across the plains, right? And she's bringing with her technology and literature. And you can see Americans following her and that the darkness, she's bringing light with her, but she's also chasing away the darkness. And that means that the wild animals and the wild people, the natives are doomed. They're going to be overrun by, by the American. By the. By American progress. And all, all of this is a good thing, right? All of this is good because. Because obviously we're change. We're. We're transforming darkness into light. Okay, so, so that's going to be the way Americans think about their mission and their manifest destiny. And we'll talk about. More about this. I have a whole lecture on this later. Okay, now the next one then is industrialization. We talked about how the United States became an industrialized country. Industrialization is being. Is transforming from an agrarian economy to a manufacturing economy. I told you already, the nation was divided between industry and in the agrarian south before the Civil War. After the Civil War, the United States becomes really starts to focus on industrialization and by the turn of the 20th century, the United States is going to be the most powerful industrial nation on earth by the beginning of the 20th century, although a lot of the countries won't recognize this till later at any rate, then the fact that the United States becomes an industrialized country has greater effect than just economic because industrialization will affect every aspect of life. It affects laws, it affects foreign policy, it affects where people live and how they live and the structure of the family. And all different things are going to be changed because of industrialization and it will lead to a lot of unrest. Okay, Industrialization leads to unrest, and the United States will have to figure out how to respond to the challenges of industrialization at the same time as it's profiting from industrialization. So that's going to be something that dry. In fact, that's one of the first lecture that we're going to do is going to be about industrialization. Okay? Imperialism. Imperialism is the control of one country's resources by another. United States began imperial expansion really right from the very beginning, because Americans were expanding even before they were Americans. I mean, while they were still British colonists, they were expanding into the West. The United States, by taking control of the North American continent, essentially with Louisiana Purchase in the Mexican American War, were able to acquire a vast empire. So there was. Whereas, for example, in England, England's economy was based on cotton textiles, but they don't grow cotton in India, excuse me, in England. And so they had to go elsewhere for their cotton. And they got the cotton from America for up until the Civil War. And then they changed and they got it from Egypt and from India. But the main thing is that they had to go overseas for resources and markets, whereas the United States did not have to do that until much later. It was, it was, we'll see in a couple of weeks. The frontier was closed in 1890, meaning essentially that there was no place else for Americans to expand on the North American continent. And that's where we're going to see the United States begin to exert its influence in other parts of the world, particularly in Spanish America. Okay, so the imperialism United States is driven by, by, by its industrial needs. But the United States doesn't usually end up ruling vast overseas territories. Like, like, for example, England ruled India and, and France ruled, you know, Southeast Asia. Right. The United States, instead of doing that, will, rather than controlling the political life of another area, they'll be content to control the economic life. And that's. So that's, that's something that will, again, we'll talk about that on a different day. But the main thing here is to, is to understand that the United States by the beginning of the 20th century is not only an imperial, an industrial power, but also an, an imperial power. Okay? And again, not even. Even though that many, many other parts of other countries, other powerful countries don't really recognize it yet. Okay? And then finally, race, okay? And, and this is the one that we never want to talk about, but we have to first understand that the way that we will con, we will describe American perception of race is that whiteness equals privilege. Okay? So now I know some of you just turned your brains off because you said there is no such thing as white privilege. I, I don't have any privilege because I'm white. And, and that's something that we could argue, but, but we're not going to right now. The main thing is to say that for a long period in time in the United States, if you were not white, you could not participate, right? Black people could not participate. But whiteness didn't just mean essentially the color of your skin. It had to do with other issues as well. So for a long time, Irish came to America. They were not considered to be white. They did not have equal parts privilege with everybody else because they were Catholic and they talked funny, right? And, and you know, then later we would see other ethnic groups. The Hispanics were not considered to be equal, right? Asians were not considered to be equal. Blacks obviously are not considered to be equal. We see people come from Southern Europe, the Italians, Spanish and, and from Eastern Europe, Poles and, and Russians, right? Come to the United States. They're not considered to be white, right? And what will happen is that each one of these different groups will work its way into whiteness, right? Meaning that they will become recognized as white. Like, for example, the Irish in the 1840s, there were actually political parties that were based on the idea of let's get rid of all the Irish people, send them all back to Ireland, right? But because of the Civil War and the participation of Irish Americans in the Civil War and also because having a lot to do with Catholic education, the Irish, by the time we get to the later part of the 19th century, have worked their way into whiteness. There seem to be equal with other white groups, like people from England, for example. Okay? And, and, and so, so then, and this happens to all the groups. So, so we see it happens with the, the Irish and the Italians and the Poles and, and so forth, right? And that, so, so then the, the test for privileged will be Whiteness. And the closer to you, your group gets to being perceived as white, the more privilege you will have. Okay? That's going to change in, in the civil rights movement, where because of the 14th amendment that I just talked about a little while ago, we will no longer consider privilege based on group membership. Right? So. So you can't say that white people have privilege and other people don't have privilege. Everybody has equal privilege. Right. That's going to be kind of the, the outcome of the civil rights movement. Right. But the, the problem is that institutionally, the United States is no longer what we would think of as racist, Meaning that we don't have racist laws anymore. We don't have racist. We don't. We don't accept racist treatment of other groups. In theory. Right. Officially. But it still happens, right? And the reason why it still happens is because the United States. Because racism in the United States is, is inherent. It's. It's something that's. That accompanies American life. Right? And, you know, so we think, often we think, okay, well, race racists are all in the south, right? And we're not racist because we're in California and California is not racist. Right, but that's not true. I mean, look at. Let's just look at some things in history, right? That in 1947, Jackie Robinson becomes the first black player in the major leagues. Okay, well, was this the Southern major leagues? No, it's the American major leagues. Right. And. And then in 1952, President Truman integrates the armed services, meaning that you can't separate blacks and whites in the armed services. Okay, Is that the Southern armed services? No, it's the American armed services. So what we can see is that racism was actually institutionalized in the United states until the 1960s, essentially. Right. But. And what that institutionalism, institutionalization of racism reflected America's racist culture. And so when you do away with the institutionalization, when you do away with the laws, when you say those laws are no longer in effect and you can't, you can't, you can't enforce racial segregation any longer. That doesn't desegregate people's minds, all right? And so that's what we see today. We see that race is still a problem in the United States, okay? That people are still racist. And many people who are racist would never think of themselves as racist, but they are because it's something that's built in. Right? And so that's something that we're going to have to look at and kind of wrestle with as we go through the course but it's an underlying current throughout American history going all the way back to the colonial period and it's something that we are still have to deal with. All right. So hopefully we can take a good hard look at that as we're going through this course because I think that in many ways racism is like an addiction, that the addict doesn't know that they're an addict and the only way that they can ever become not addicts is by admitting that they're addicts. Right. And I think it's true with racism as well. I think many people who are racist don't know they're racist but the only way that they can get past racism is to recognize that they are racist and then work from there towards recovery, essentially. Right, okay. So those are my themes. Those are the things that we're going to be looking at through the rest of the course and that's me signing off.