Recording in let us be lovers we'll marry our fortunes together I've got some real estate here in my bag so we bought a pack of cigarettes and Mrs. Wagna pies and we walked off to look for America. Kathy, I said as we boarded a Greyhound in Pittsburgh, Michigan seems like a dream to me now it took me four days to hit HA From Saginaw and I've come to look for America Laughing on the bus Playing games with the faces she said the man in the gabrity suit was a spy I said be careful his bow tie is really a camera Toss me a cigarette I think there's one in my raincoat I will smoke the last one out we'll go. So while looked at the scenery she read her magazine and the moon goes over and over Kathy, I'm lost I said though I knew she was sleeping I'm empty king and I don't know why Counting the cards of the New Jersey turnpike and they've all alone to look for America oh, come to look for America Sam. America welcome to the far America welcome to the. You guys like my song? It was. It's probably kind of slow for you guys, right? But anybody want to guess why I played it today? Well, it's called America. So is it because we're going to be learning about America? Well, we're looking for America, aren't we? That's true. Yeah. That's. That's. I think that's kind of the whole point of the book that we're reading. You guys are. You guys are ready to talk about chapters three and four and meet him, right? Okay. Yeah. So that's really the point of the book that we've. That we're reading is to see if we can find America. What do you guys think about that? Come on, think something. How about turning up your cameras? It's good. It's good. Meaning, do you think America is lost? Well, no. Yeah. I mean, I don't think they're lost, but I do like what the idea behind that is, I guess. Yeah. We're trying to figure out what really is America, and we're finding out that it's very complex, isn't it? Everybody has kind of a different idea about what it is. And I think that one of the things that, for me, is valuable about this book that we're reading is it. It helps us to kind of contextualize for ourselves. What. What does this actually mean? What. What is it? What does it mean to be an American? How do you become an American? And I think that's an important question for us to ask because that's a question that we've always been asking right from the very beginning. All right, anybody else? Questions? Comments? Let me just show you. I want to share with you the screen. Do you see the syllabus? Do you guys see the syllabus? Okay, so we're here today, and then on Monday, we're going to talk about the New Deal. So by then you should have watched the movie. We have a plan, and answered the questions. And then we'll will use that as a kind of a backdrop for what we're talking about when we talk about the New Deal. And then on Wednesday, we're going to talk about World War II. And in the following week, we're gonna. We're gonna be discussing the parts of the good War book that I assigned to you guys. And also I'll get you guys going on your midterm on your. On your group group discussions. And then the fall. That Wednesday that we'll have our midterm. And then after that, spring break. Okay, so that's where we're coming. That's where we're going. It's all coming. It's all just passing by very quickly, kind of like a runaway train. Okay, questions? Comments? All right. Actually, I have a question. How far along on that study guide that you have on there would you say we should be. Does it go in order? I mean, I've been noticing it kind of did. Yeah, it goes in order. Let me just see. I haven't looked at it. That's not it. Oh, yeah, because I. I've been answering some of those questions, but I feel like I might be a little behind. I just want to know if I was on track. Well, let me just see this one. Can you guys see the study guide here? No. You just see a blank screen, but now you see the study guide, right? Yep. Okay. We should be all the way through it. Okay. Yeah, we should be all the way through that. Okay, thank you. All right. We're actually working on our final exam right now, but don't let that stop you. Right. Okay. Okay. See, which one is this? Now, let me see. I think it's this one. All right, so. So anyway, that's what. That's what we got coming up. Any. Any questions or comments about anything? Okay, let me go ahead. And we're going to just look at the one quick question. Okay? Yes, please. Do we have a study guide for the final as well? Yeah, I haven't put that up yet. I'll put that up. In fact, I should do that today, shouldn't I? I'll look, look for it today. If it's not there today, then, then yell at me on Monday. Okay. Okay, it should be there today. Where are we at here? Okay, so here, let's go here. Now do you see the screen? You see my screen here? Yeah, right here. We're just going to go through these questions. Oh, let me ask you about the video. What did you guys think? I thought it was, I thought it was really interesting because I've never really gotten the perspective of actual individuals because, you know, all of them are dead. So these days you don't really get a perspective from an individual from the 1920s. Right. But I was interested seeing an older video like that because it actually got those experiences documented and daily life of those people and also daily life of people who maybe weren't so well to do because a lot of what you say in the night you see in the 1920s, like, oh yeah, we went to the movies and oh yeah, we did all this fun stuff. But it was also like perspectives from people who were not as well due to do all that stuff every day. Yeah, yeah. Well, that was what I think of as the value of that video even. It's, even though it's a very old video, I think it comes from the 80s, which is probably before most of you guys were born. But, but it does have that element of being able to hear voices from that era. And, and, and that's what I think makes it very valuable. I, I also would usually if I was showing it in class, I would, I would point out that Bill Moyers is a little off putting with his big hair and his big glasses. But, but the, the overall value of the video is in, is in the testimonies, I think. Anybody else questions? Comments? Yeah, I thought it was interesting because it like kind of showed the start of like large scale American consumerism, which was interesting to see. And there was, it was just, it can kind of be related a lot to like what has been happening today. Obviously today it was on a large, like a lot smaller scale. Like we didn't have a full crash, but like our economy did go down and people did suffer just like back then. Yeah, actually the worst crash was actually in 2008. But in terms of the amount of money that was lost, I think that this last crash has been, I haven't compared them, but I think it's been pretty devastating. So yeah, there's this question about how are we going to recover and we can learn from what happened in the past. Let me just give you an idea and we'll talk more about this as we go through next couple weeks. But when the stock market crashed, the President Hoover did some small things to try to help people, but for the most part he believed that it was a natural downturn, that capitalism works in boom and bust cycles and that this was just another bust cycle and that the economy would come back by itself. And that goes along with the idea of laissez faire, let it go. The government should just keep it hands off and the invisible hand will run the economy. And the end of that was that we were up to about 25% unemployment and the country was. The economy was devastated. And when Roosevelt was elected, he was elected on a platform that he was going to use the federal government to do things that it had never done before, like to support individuals in society to try to bring back the economy and to alleviate suffering. And that was one of the reasons why he was so revered by so many people. And what we're going to find out next week when we talk about the New Deal is that the New Deal didn't really end the depression, but it was enough to keep America from becoming even more radical than, than it did considering what happened in the rest of the world. Okay, so, so that's an interesting point that you bring up. Any, any. All right, so let's go ahead and we'll just run through the questions I got from the book and you guys can see them on the screen now. Right, okay. So let's just take them one by one first. 1. TR's capacity to stand on some occasions for equality and for openness and in others, to argue that it was the destiny of the Anglo Saxon peoples to rule the world was a particular example of a more universal American inconsistency. What do you think is an example of that? Did you see an example of that in the book? Well, let's say it this way. First off, what is the inconsistency? The inconsistency that exists is basically, you know, Theodore Roosevelt was saying like, oh yeah, blacks and whites are equal or you know, all the races are equal. And then he's at the same time going about saying how or imperializing other countries and basically saying like, oh yeah, you know, they can't really. Or basically implying that they can't rule themselves or they can't establish their own governments and that, you know, Anglo Saxons are gonna have to spread there influence and their government. Okay, great, Vernon, that's exactly right. What did we talk about that in class? Do we have. Did we talk about that attitude when we talked about imperialism? Yeah, yeah, completely. What was it? Do you guys remember how I. How I framed it? Well, it's like Manifest Destiny almost. But you're right, it is Manifest Destiny. But I called it the White Man's Burden. Remember that? The White Man's Burden. The White Man's Burden was a poem by Rudyard Kipling, who was English, who was trying to encourage Americans to. To take up the imperial rule of Puerto Rico and the Philippine Islands and. And Cuba. Right. And. But the idea behind the White Man's Burden is what? But the white man is what? Well, the white man is, like, responsible for all the. The prosperity. Like, I guess, like, I guess he said in the book, like a good deal of sentimental nonsense has been talked about our taking the Indians land. So he says you should feel bad for or grateful for the people who came before you to take that land or something like that. Exactly. So. So there's the. There's the inconsistency. The inconsistency is. Well, you know, everybody is equal, but at the same time that we took all this land away from the Indians and we shouldn't be sad about it because just like that painting. Remember the painting I showed you, American Progress? It's. That's the attitude right there. It's like, okay, well, the Indians have to slink off into the darkness, but being replaced by this great American empire. Does that make sense, you guys? Questions? Comments? Do you think that attitude still exists? Yeah, I think it still exists today. I feel like it's really the irony of what conservative values. What happens when conservative values clash with liberal values even today or back then? Like, for example, TR's. TR's inconsistency. It really highlights how he's trying to hold on to his conservative views when he clearly sees that racism is wrong against, you know, the American value. Okay, all right, I see it. Do you. Do you guys see it in American foreign policy? The idea that everybody should be equal, but we need to send troops because why? We need to help them be right because they can't do it on their own. Right? Yeah, we keep on interfering. It's like, you know, let the. It's like let them do their own thing. You know, they can be capable, right? Yeah. Well, I mean, believe that. You guys, remember we talked. I think it was Monday, right? We talked about World War I, and we talked about the mandates. Remember the mandates? How European powers divided up the world essentially based on the idea that they couldn't rule themselves. So, so the British mandate was that they would rule Iraq until Iraq could learn to rule themselves. Right. You see, I'm saying, and this isn't, this is a just. This is a representative example of something that we still see today. Why is it that the Americans had to go in and help the Iraqis write a constitution? Well, obviously they didn't know how to rule themselves. Right. So they needed our help to do it. Easy. I'm saying we could see it, for example, when we talked about Cuba, right. How United States and American admiral actually wrote the constitution for the people of Cuba. Why? Because the people of Cuba couldn't rule themselves. Why? Because they were not white. You guys get what I'm saying? So, so this is something that, that carries over. And I think it's a good thing for us to kind of, to realize as, as we consider, well, what is America? What does it mean to be an American? What do you guys think? Questions, Comments about this? Isn't it also kind of maybe, maybe today, maybe it's like less the race aspect and more the American exceptionalism aspect. Like, you know, we think we're more exceptional than other countries, and so we deserve to, like, you know, that are that our message or our. The way we rule ourselves is more superior to other. Well, yeah, except for the problem is that wherever the United States imposes its will is on. Is in places that aren't predominantly white. Right. I mean, the United States isn't. Isn't trying to tell, you know, France how to run its government or, or, well, you know, the Czech Republic or, or Italy. Right? You follow what I'm saying here? So, so there is that kind of racial element. And we, we think about, for example, with immigration, right? Who. Who is it? Who, who are the great menaces who are trying to come to America? Are they white people? Do you, do you remember when Trump asked his meeting at the White House, why are we letting all these people in from all these shithole countries? Why don't we let people in from Scandinavia? Do you follow what I'm saying here? All right, so there's still that racial element in it. Right. But you're right, though. I mean, the thing about, if you look at, for example, the British civilizing mission and the American civilizing mission or Manifest Destiny and the American. Manifest Destiny puts the American system higher than anybody else. So we could see white Europeans are at the pinnacle of civilization and in Americans are even above that. Right. Does that make sense, Vernon? Yeah, 100%. Yeah. Okay, good. Any. Any Questions, Comments about that? Let's go ahead and move on. Illustrated on page 78 places TR wrote, basic human rights as imagined by Jefferson included the rights of the worker to a living wage, to reasonable hours of labor, to decent working and living conditions, and to freedom of thought and speech and industrial representation. All right, so when we think about the Gilded Age, what was the basic challenge of the Gilded Age? What was the Gilded Age? The time of great excess, right before, like the progressive Age. And then there were all the. Were the workers were all being taken advantage and there wasn't a lot of workers rights or right. Workers regulation, basically. Well, wasn't it he who has the gold, like makes the rules or something like that? Is that. No, the Gilded Age was. Remember a gilded. It was actually a book. Right, By Mark Twain. Right. That's the golden rule you're talking about. The Gilded Age is like a piece of furniture that's made out of, you know, cheap fiber. Fiber sawdust or something. But they paint it gold to make it look like it's. It's more valuable than it is. And when we refer to American society that way, we're saying, just like what Ian said is that some people just got incredibly rich. And there was this massive industrial expansion, creation of lots and lots of wealth, but at the same time, there was incredible income inequality, wealth inequality, and the poor people were trampled upon. Right. So there was a real. Because there was so much suffering that was under this kind of golden surface. There was always. There was the fear that they wouldn't be able to maintain their prosperity because the workers would eventually overthrow the system, either becoming communist or something like that. You guys remember that? So that's the Gilded Age. And so how did Americans respond to that? Remember, we talked about. There were three responses. One was communism, one was Social Darwinism, and one was positivism. Right. You guys remember those? And the idea behind communism is what split the wealth, all the wealth for everyone. Well, what was the problem? You're right, but what was the problem with wealth? Americans don't like to share. Well, that's true. That's. That's why we don't like communism. But what was the problem identified by communism? Why. Why did the capitalists have all the money? Because they owned property, they owned the means of production. Yeah, right. Businesses and stuff. Exactly. So if you take away the means of production and share it with everybody, then everybody would share the wealth. Right. So that idea was to violently overthrow the capitalist system and take control of the means of production. The idea behind social Darwinism Is what let the weak and poor die. Exactly. Let them die. Okay. And then the idea behind positivism was what everyone talked about Porfirio Diaz and the scientificals in Mexico. Oh, yeah, that the, that scientists shouldn't run the. Or they shouldn't be elected officials. Because not everybody like has the same views. I don't know. I just remember that they shouldn't be elected officials. Well, what, what we said was that the government can be scientifically managed. Oh, yeah, sorry. But if we're going to have the government scientifically managed, who has to be governed? Who has to be governors? Who has to govern? The rich, right? No, not the rich. Scientists. Scientists. Scientists. Right, okay. And remember we, we pointed out that that ends up being inherently anti Democratic, but Americans adopt those ideas and enact them in a democratic way. Do you guys follow saying. And so the American response to the Gilded Age was progressivism. Progressivism looks like positivism. Okay, okay. But some of the aspects of progressivism were what, what did the progressives want? Social. Social equality. Social equality. Let's see if we can maybe find. Is there a quote maybe on the, on the screen in front of you? It says things like rights of the worker to a living wage, reasonable hours on labor, decent working and living conditions. Does that sound kind of like what the progressives wanted? That tells us that TR was what, he was a progressive. He was a progressive. What was his political party? He was, he went eventually into the Bull Moose, which was a progressive party, but wasn't conservative, right off the bat. But then he kind of grew hatred towards like the excess of capitalism. All right, so, but, so his lifelong, his political party was what? He was a. Come on, Republican or Democrat? Republican. He was a Republican. Right. Okay, now why is it important for us to think about this? Well, for one reason we can say, okay, this is a demonstration of how the Republican Party was originally the party of reform. You follow what I'm saying? And it was actually after TR that the party of reform, or the mantle of reform changed to the Democratic Party. And it's really almost because of TR because TR broke the Republican Party by running as a third party candidate. Okay, so, so what that means is it shows us then that the, that the Republicans at one point were the party of reform, but now that they're not. Okay, does that make sense to you guys? Questions, Comments about this? Okay, well, that, that really shows that split then in the Republican Party between those people who think that the party should stand for reform and those people who think it should stand for making lots of money. Because I can tell you that factory owners didn't think that workers were entitled to a living wage, decent working and living conditions and industrial representation. You guys follow what I'm saying? Okay. All right, so connect Meacham's observations on the views of Washington and Hamilton. Actually Washington, Hamilton thought differently. But let's just say the views of Hamilton concerning immigration with TR's views and with public opinion. Okay, so, so now what did, what did Hamilton say about, about immigration? Didn't he want it limited? Right, so we go to page 81. 81. He says Alexander Hamilton, himself an immigrant and in the 21st century, an of American mobility, had reservations. The influx of foreigners must tend to produce a heterogeneous compound to change and corrupt the national spirit, to complicate and confound public opinion, to introduce foreign propensities. What does all that mean? He felt foreigners and ideas are scary. Right. Okay, but now let's think about this for a minute. Because when Hamilton was in 1802, how many people were actually American? How many people had been born in the United States? Extremely limited amount of people. Really. Yeah. Because the United States has only been a country for 10 years, essentially. Right. Following here. All right. Or you know, close, maybe close to 20. But at any rate the point, 15 years, something like that. Right, but the point is that everybody's foreigners, so how can we not let in foreigners? Right, but this is what Hamilton said. And what that tells us then is that the American identity was really the Anglo Saxon identity, wasn't it? It was those people that had had inherited their sense of self from the British Empire. Okay. And that's where we come with this idea that America is an Anglo Saxon country. Right. You guys get what I'm saying? Okay, now what did, what did TR say about. On page 85, you guys have your book, right? Yeah. He said anybody can be an American just as long as they're willing to adopt a new way of life, I guess, when they get here. Right. He says Americanism is a question of spirit, conviction and purpose, not of creed or birthplace. The politician who bids for the Irish or German vote or the Irishman or German who votes for as an Irishman or German is despicable for all citizens of this Commonwealth should vote solely as Americans. But he is not a whit less despicable than the voter who votes against a good American merely because that American happens to have been born in Ireland or Germany, a Scandinavian, a German or an Irishman who has really become an American, has the right to stand on exactly the same footing as any native born citizen in the land and is just as much entitled to the friendship and support, social and political of his neighbors. Right now one thing we'll notice is that all of the people that he's describing here, German, Scandinavians and Irishmen are all white. Right? But he's saying at that time, we have to say at this time, Irishmen, Scandinavians and Germans were seen as foreigners. Right. The same way that we see maybe people from Central America or people from the Middle east today as foreigners. You see what I'm saying? So what is the heart of what Roosevelt says? Make somebody an American? Because if he stated that you couldn't vote Irish or German, so it's kind of meaning like you have to adopt the vote of the American or like not adopt the vote for the American people, but you have to vote American because like if you vote like for how your old country was like in Ireland or German, Germany, then you're probably going to start turning the country into that if there's mass people doing it. But I mean it's just, if you just become a citizen and like agree and like adopt the American way of life, then you'll have no problem. Pretty much. Okay, so what do you think then makes an American according to tr? So, so TR acknowledges that we are all, you know, like a melting pot of cultures. But according to him, what makes us American is our shared values. Right? Yeah. Okay, so it's interesting that. Go ahead. I'm sorry. Sorry. And leaving all everything else behind. Physical but like cultural and like adoptive, basically as he's saying he was, you'd be from America to be an American. You just have to act an American when you're there. Right. So, so, so what that says then is that there's an American culture. Right. Is there culture? Yes. Yeah, I think so. Not a unified one, I'd say. What were you saying, Kyle? I didn't hear you. I'd say not a unified one. Right. We talk about multiculturalism, right. Why do you think we talk about multiculturalism? Because they're a huge melting pot. Because we can't agree on what the culture is. Right. In a way, if you think about it. But the, the. I think the point that's being, that's being made in the book at this point is to say that at this time in history there was the, A kind of the majority view was that American culture was Anglo Saxon culture essentially. Right. That if you became an Anglo Saxon and acted like an Anglo Saxon, then you would be considered an American. And that's what we see, for example, when the, when the Americans try to civilize Native Americans, what do they do? They say, okay, you're going to have livestock, you're going to plant farms, you're going to become Christians, as we see in Hawaii, too, right? In Hawaii, the idea is you can become Christians and then you're going to govern yourselves like Americans. And then you'll be, you know, then you'll be American. But it's, but it's not that America, it's not an American. It's not limited to the ideals of the American Republic, which are expressed in the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution and the Bill of Rights and the Gettysburg Address, Right? It is this Americanization of that creed, essentially. Do you follow what I'm saying? So it's more than just the ideals. And I think that's where we have to kind of understand that people may agree on the ideals, but we don't agree on necessarily what they mean. Right? I, I think that if we say all men are created equal, right? We all agree on that. But what does it mean? Do you follow what I'm saying? Am I equal? Am I equal to practice my own religion? Am I equal to, you know, thumb, my thumb, my nose, you know, I forgot what, I can't think of a word. But am I, am, am I equal to disregard what everybody else thinks is right and just do what I think is right? Or, or do I have to conform somehow? Do you follow what I'm saying? Am I equal only when I conform or am I equal before I conform? You guys get what I'm saying? Okay, so this is, this is at the peer, at this period of time, the idea was that you could only be equal if you conform. What about now? Do you think that's the way it is now? Yes. Okay. The reason, the only reason why I say that is due to. There's still evidence of that type of, I guess, society existing, huh? Like, for example, a country club. You can't go in wearing a backwards baseball cap. Or like there's certain, like, rules or like, things that they have in place for you, right? Make you appear or like the society they want in their environment, you know? Okay, I, I get, I get that. What about some of the videos we may have seen of people in a grocery store wherever, where some, or in a restaurant where some people are speaking a foreign language and, and somebody will go, go off on them and say, why don't you speak English? This is America. Go back to your own country. Right? All that stuff doesn't that, doesn't that, doesn't that. That hurts? Well, yeah, but doesn't. Doesn't it signify that you can't really be an American if you don't speak English? Only in certain areas. I don't feel like that's an overall theme. Right, I get it. I mean, I understand that's. I don't think that's what most people think, but I think a lot of people think that way. Right. More than we'd like to believe, I think. Yeah, go ahead. I'm sorry, Anita, I was thinking when you were talking about it in the beginning, the one thing that, like, sort of made everyone an American wasn't necessarily their cultures, but that everybody spoke English. And at the time, that's how when people, like, for instance, when my grandparents came here, they started speaking English, and even though they spoke a foreign language, they never taught it to their children. And that's how that went. I think that's a little different now. People don't tend to, you know, sometimes people come over and not only do they not learn English, but if they do, they teach their language to their children. Yeah. And I think that that's an example of how we've moved away from this idea that when we say a melting pot, the idea of the melting pot is that you take all these people from different places and you put them in a pot and it becomes one thing. Right. But instead of a melting pot, I think today we've become a salad where we throw all these things in a bowl, but they don't become one thing. They're all. It's one thing, but it's still made up of all these other things that are still recognizable. Right. So we can still see Hispanic culture. We can still see, you know what. And Asian cultures, you know, we can. We can still see all that and recognize that's American, too. What do you guys think about that? Oh, sorry. Go ahead. I was going to say for the. How do we put it? Yes. America was based off of, you know, found off of, like, the English language. Like, if you're coming to America, we want America to be an English language. Everybody can speak it. Because in Europe, everybody speaks different languages. But up here, if we have a common thing and get everybody to do it, that's our language. So in a way, I would agree with, yes, you should learn the language of that country. So say, for example, I went to France, I learned to speak a little French or, like, try to speak their language to have a better experience and come on their level. You Know what I'm saying? So, like, in different countries, you have your own thing. So it's more of a. A form of surviving. Right. Because if I just speak English and are in Russia, like, I don't know what they're saying about me. I don't know. I can't, you know, determine if there's a threat or if it's a positive thing. Like, you can't figure out what's going on. So if they have a common thing or, like, their language, it's kind of good for you to, like, learn it for, like, a survival skill set. Yeah. I'm not arguing against learning the language of the country that you come to, but I think that it is jacked up how people say that. Like, hey, you know, you're in America. Speak this language. Like, you could speak whatever language you want for time being and for you to. To help you out. Yeah, you should. You should. You should learn to educate yourself on a different language. Right. You know, I think you should be open to it. Yes. One thing. One thing that I will tell you, though, from experience, is that if you go to France and you try to speak French, they all speak English, and they'll. They won't tell you, and they'll laugh at you. Oh, I'm fine with that. They don't laugh at you. They correct you. They tell you everything you say is wrong. And, like, you have the wrong accent. Exactly. It's not like they're getting our words right. And we think it's delightful that they have an accent. Yeah, exactly. Well, some people do, anyway. All right, I think we've kind of beat that one to death. Any questions, comments? And so, professor, real quick, I just want to add to your analogy of the salad. I think the core of every salad is still the lettuce. Right. And so, really, American, I feel that even though we all have a different view of where we want to be in the next 10, 20 years, the shared value for me, I've always seen, is the same. And that is we all stand for freedom and liberty and happiness, and that's all we want. Right. Okay. So just so you guys know, I believe that the only thing that makes us American is our adherence to the American creed, as expressed in the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, Bill of Rights, and a Gettysburg Address. I think that's the only thing that makes us American. But there's a difference between being an American and being a citizen, apparently. You guys follow him? Sam. Okay, so let's move on. TR held many views about race that would today be considered outside accepted social thought. Scholar Thomas G. Dyer is quoted on page 89 of writing. Although Roosevelt may have been a moderating force in an age of high racism, he nevertheless harbored strong feelings about the inferiority of blacks, feelings which suggest the pervasiveness of racism and the harsh character of racial moderation in turn of the century America. Contextualize TR's moderation in terms of our discussions about the importance of understanding what is ontological in studying the past. Then comment on Meacham's description of TR in terms of his larger argument about the better angels, the battle for our better angels. All right, so did anybody understand that question? What I got out of it? No, go ahead, Anita. What I got out of it was, I remember reading that Theodore Roosevelt's mom grew up in the south during construction Reconstruction. Sorry. And sort of raised him with that kind of mindset. And so he had already in his head a certain way of thinking about, you know, how whites were, you know, superior and everything, but morally he understood that all people should be equal. And so he kind of went back and forth on that. Okay, so in terms of. How would that. How would the idea of what is ontological fit into that? Well, his feelings were the feelings of the time. Exactly. So what we see then is this idea of that, the country itself. I think the point here is that the country itself, ontologically, at this point, was intensely racist. But then we see that there is this person, the president, who is trying to move us beyond that, but still driven by that same idea. Right. So ontologically, I. Ontologically, I still carry this sense of superiority of my own race, I guess, and an inferiority of others, but at the same time, trying to move beyond that. I felt like he was a lot like Lincoln in that way. Yeah, Lincoln was like that, too. Do you think any of us are like that, or do you think Americans today might be like that? I'd say yeah, that's a fair assumption. Okay, an example. Ian, I know I'm putting you on the spot, but. Well, no, it's no worries. I'm just trying to gather my words. I just think that the whole idea of, like, what's ontological is kind of believing something that. Because that's the way it was and everyone believes it, that I think inherent in society. So I don't think that that would go away. I think it would be better than maybe the past, but I. That's still there. All right, good. What about the idea of implicit bias? Have you heard of that? Like, the Bias is there, like always is that it's there and we don't know it's there. I always say, because I feel like you always have a bias, you could try to remove your bias the best as possible, and you can tell a story that has limited skew, but you're never going to remove the bias. Right, but if you don't think you have a bias, then you don't think, then there's no need to remove it. Right, exactly. Yeah. Right. So that's the problem then with implicit bias, is that we have biases that we don't recognize that we have, and because we don't recognize them, we can't move beyond them. Does that make sense to you guys? Yeah, that definitely. Okay, so now when we think about what Meacham is arguing about, Americans having a battle for our better angels, where does this fit into that argument? What do you think is our better angels? Do you think our better angels. Is this more inclusive idea or the. Or the more exclusive idea? Inclusive, probably. Inclusive, yeah, exactly. So, so now when, when we look at the overall argument of the book about Americans and their battle for their better angels, what is Meacham's argument? What is he saying that Americans end up with? Do Americans find their better angels? No, they. They're getting warmer, though. Yeah, exactly. That's the thing. It's a slow movement. Right. I. I think that's the point that he's making here, is that, is that we can look at any particular era and say, well, this is a horrible situation. But then we can also see Americans trying to move beyond that. And, and so let me just ask you guys, do you think that that's something we're doing now? I think we're trying. Yeah. Do you think that. Do you think that we're having a battle for our better angels in the United States right now? I think perpetually, yeah. Okay. There's constant movement forward, but. All right, well, I mean, it's not constant. We could still move backwards, as we've seen. Yeah, right. But. But overall, we keep moving forward. Right. Okay. So on page 103, after discussion about the ratification of the 19th Amendment, Meacham notes that the triumph of women's suffrage was brought about by a century and a half of effort by those without office. It is often true that Americans look for leadership from elected officials, reflect upon the power inherent in the people of a democracy. What is the nature of that power? Do you think that power can be or is being used today for change? And explain. All right, so first, one Is what is the power inherent in the people of a democracy? Voting? Well, that's. That's part of it, but it's more than just voting. I mean, you think about the women's suffrage movement, right? They couldn't vote. Protests for them. Yeah. So it's protest. And also what. What else? Protest and what else? How else would they convince people to pass laws? Money? Well, I don't think that they bought them off. But more than money would be what? Sex, influence, lobbying. Right. You guys get what I'm saying? So the power really in a democracy rests in the people. Only if we recognize it. If we don't recognize it, it's not there. And I think that that is something that we tend to do is to forget that we do have that power, that we don't have to wait for somebody in government to do things. Right. That we can actually agitate for change on our own. What do you guys think? Is that something that we see now happening? Yes. Where do you see it? Give me an example. Black Lives Matter. Okay. Black Lives matter. Major protests and all that stuff. Okay. So in the last summer, last year, we've had demonstrations around the world in response to George Floyd being killed on camera. Right. Does that have an effect on American life? That have an effect on the American government? It did, I'd say. Yeah. So. Right. So the. The point then is that we have the power, but only if we use it. You guys get that? Yeah. And I think. I think it has to be sustained pressure. Right. Over time, which is why it took 150 years for women to get the vote. Exactly. You can't give up. It's something that. I think if you look at civil rights. Civil rights is kind of the same thing as we'll see when we get to, you know, the end of the course, and we'll talk about, you know, 100 years of agitating for civil rights finally comes to a head in 1964 and 1965. Right. But it wasn't. It wasn't like all. Like, in 1963, people decided, hey, we got a problem here with civil rights, let's do something about it. Right. It was a long, long and. And often fruitless effort. Okay. And the. The thing was that they just didn't give up. Okay. Questions? Comments about any of that? All right, page 111. Meacham writes about the rise of a new KKK at a time when industrialization, urbanization were transforming the old agrarian world. The Klan promised racial solidarity and cultural certitude. The Klan offered structure, position, and brotherhood to many restive or disoriented men from small towns and big cities in the Americas. In the america of the 1920s, the historian David H. Bennett wrote, it was a movement so remarkably suited to its time and place that its growth matched the boom of a larger nation. Describe some of the social and economic conditions of the 1920s. Meacham calls out as catalysts for the rise of the Klan. What do you guys think about that? Social and economic conditions that lead to the rise of the Klan? I. I definitely think that during that time period, like, having, like, racism still be, like, super relevant, segregation still be, like, extremely dominant in. In most societies, that having that type of belief, like, influence in the government officials and stuff. Because I know that it stated on page 111 that the Klan had their own, like, governorships and that even, like, some elected officials had, like, clan ties and stuff, which would definitely attract more people. You know what I mean? It would definitely attract more. More people to join the clan because they had the same beliefs and that laws that they believe would get passed and just. It just. It attracted a mass appeal of people, for sure, because, I mean, it's a clan member or an official associated with the clan, so they probably get what they want for the most part. I think it gave people a feeling of like, Like, Like a fraternity or brother ship. And then there was like, a huge, like, ranking up. So, like, the more you did, the more respectful you got out of it. And I think that that was a part of why. I think it was so successful. But the reason why it probably came along was like, fear. Like fear mongering. There was that movie that came out that. Right. The Birth of a Nation. Birth of a Nation. Right. Go ahead. That's. That's pretty much it. I was gonna say. Okay, so. So when we. I think somebody said that the. The. The rise of the clan came out of fear. What was the fear? Fear of falling behind the white. The white man falling behind, basically. Why would the white man be falling behind? Because the. The oppressed, the people that were below him were rising up. Okay. And. And these people that were below him, who were they? You're right. You're absolutely black people generally, but really, any. Any. Anybody but white, I feel like. Right, exactly. So if. If you guys remember when we saw the movie the 20s, right? And in that movie, they were saying, anybody with black people, it could be anybody, could be intellectuals, could be Jews, could be people from Poland or in Italy. Right. Anybody that was different could be terrorized by the clan. Right. You Guys are with me. Okay? So it wasn't just blacks. It was anybody that was different because those people that were different were doing what? They were taking away our jobs of the. The job. Okay? So. So on the one hand, yeah, they, they were taking away jobs. Keeping in mind that we're. We're still in this, in this movement from an agrarian society to industrial society. Are the. Is it really the immigrants that are taking away the jobs? No, it's the industrial workers that are giving the jobs to the immigrants. The rich white people. Well, yeah, but the jobs are changing. There aren't any more jobs in agriculture. Right. That the jobs are now in industry, and these foreigners come and they take the jobs in industry and that leaves the white people out. Right, you follow? I'm saying the white farmers, for example. Okay? And. And then the other part of it is that there's this. If we start to, to honor Italian culture, we start to celebrate Columbus Day, right? If we start to honor Irish culture, we celebrate St. Patrick's Day. Right? Okay. Doesn't that take away from our culture? Isn't that replacing our culture? You guys get what I'm saying? And so here we have an organization that says, let's just get rid of all those guys and it'll be just us, and then, then we'll be happy. Right? What do you guys think? Does that sound right? That reminds me of. Of late 30s Germany. Okay. And in like, era, that feeling of, hey, they're our problem, let's get rid of them. Right? Okay. They're very dangerous, genocidal thought right. From World War II. Okay, well, let's just think about this for a minute. I mean, there was. There had always been an anti Semitic strain in European thought. Still is, actually. Right, so. So Hitler didn't actually invent anti Semitism. What did he do with it? He acted upon it. Yeah, he used it. He. He. He capitalized on it. Right. He capitalized on a racism that was already there. Okay. Do you see that today anywhere? Biden. Biden. The whole movement to get Biden elected was to divide the country and bring up issues. Like, I feel like that happens every single. No matter what. Yeah, it is. It's like, oh, let's divide us more so we can get more votes. Okay? And then happens. Okay, all right. Okay. The, the main thing I think, to take away from this is this idea that, that we need to hold on to something that that's being threatened. Okay. Now, do you think that that would be something that was characteristic of our better angels, to be a Conservative? No, no, no. Well, not necessarily to be a conservative, but to think that we need conserve like, I mean conserve like traditions or whatever. Or we'll go back to it as when the KKK came out. It was more of my perspective would be conserving their way by not allowing anybody else to come in, which would still be, I don't know about today, but in my day in high school was still seen as in you have different cliques or gangs or whatever. And if you don't fit in with that, you don't join them. Like you don't hang out with the people. Like you don't hang out with. Like, unless you're a people person, you can blend in with everybody. You know, like in your. You go to any high school and see a segregated areas throughout like lunchtime. So there's like a tree in one courtyard. There would be like the tree huggers or the hippies and then the cafeteria. That's where a lot of the black kids ate and hung out. And then in one hallway it was like all white kids and another hallway, it was all the Asians in our school. Like they all sat together because of the similarities. And like you get one or twos that fit in or blended in, but you would also need pretty much to adapt to the way that they are or like, who do you want to be? Type deal. Like it all like simpleton's terms. That's what it comes down to. The KKK was definitely way out of hand for what they were trying to do. But I can see where they came from about it. They were just radicals or like extremists about the whole thing. Okay, anybody else comment question? All right, so let's look at number eight. Did you guys read the poems? Do you guys think you'd be reading poems in history class? Expected, knocked it out. What were the poems about? Well, they were kind of. I felt that they portrayed the two like split views of America. One not, but just one where it was. Had a fear of immigration and then one giving a warm welcome to everyone who felt wanted. They couldn't, they needed to go somewhere. Okay, go ahead. I was going to say I honestly felt that the poems were kind of hard to read and like understand because there was a lot of like, I mean a lot of it. It didn't really click after reading a few times. But I. That's the main takeaway I had was that it was kind of representing the split in America. How it was, I think a 10, maybe 20 year separation of when they were written actually eight years. But, yeah, go ahead. It was a. It was a stark difference between them on their perspective of America. Right, okay. So. So I. I appreciate your. Your comment, but let me just ask this question now. In the street and alley, what strange tongues are loud? Accents of menace alien to our air, Voices at once the Tower of Babel knew. O Liberty, white goddess, is it well to leave the gates unguarded? That doesn't seem like it's very nuanced. And then. And then when we go to this other one. Keep ancient lands, your storied pomp, cries she with silent lips. Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, the wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these the homeless tempest tossed to me. I lift my lamp beside the golden door. I feel like the two poems sort of just represent today the platforms of Republicans and Democrats. Really. Pretty much, you know, and obviously one. Okay. No, that's okay. Any questions? Let me. Let me just ask you. Why do you think it's Democrats and Republicans? Because those are their platforms. Really? Okay. All right. So you're saying. Then let me just guess that you're saying Republicans want to keep everybody out and the Democrats want to let everybody in. Does that sound right? I mean, you know, it's. It's two extremes, but, you know. Right, exactly. I mean, yeah, we have to. Unfortunately, in a class like this, we have to simplify things, and so we end up generalizing. But. But what we're asking here is, okay, we can see that both of those sentiments exist in today's society. What does it tell us about the 20s, that we're not too far off from them? Well, partially that. Yeah. Also, I think it really demonstrates this perpetual argument over what is America. Remember, Remember, we started off by trying to find America, Right, in the song. Right. And now we can see that this is something that they've been arguing about all along and that we're still arguing, you know, the land of the open, land of inclusiveness and freedom, equality, brotherhood. Or is America this. This prosperous empire that's occupied only by Americans? Right. You follow what I'm saying? It's a question that still hasn't been answered. Okay. I. I think it's a question that we still keep asking over and over. Any questions or comments about that question? Let's look at the next one on page 125. Meacham writes one legacy of Dayton was it religion and science joined wraith and ethnicity as a theater of war in the fight for the American soul. What's he talking About. I feel like he's talking about how science is what is science is getting more advanced and it's starting to explain a lot of the phenomenon that happened in our world. Whereas religion is sort of relying on old things, on old teachings. And so I feel like he's talking about science and religion are battling for the American soul. Is that he's saying that what is going to define us in the future, is it going to be religion or is it going to be science? I think that what's going to. He's saying what's now defining us is another argument. We're divided where some people want to take science as their lead believer and some wanted to take religion. Okay, all right, so, so what is the exact event that he's talking about? He's Darwin and then getting signed and. Right, so what do we call that? What's the name of the teacher? I can't remember. Scopes. Oh, yeah. Trial. Right. Sometimes called the Scopes Monkey trial. Right. Why would we call it the Scopes Monkey Trial? Because the slur against evolution, evolutionary theory was that we're all descended from monkeys. Okay? So all of our grandparents were monkeys or something like that. But the, the idea here, though, is that the argument was on the one hand, is there proof of evolution? Or on the other hand, do we believe that the Bible says or. Because the Bible says that the world was created in seven days and Adam and Eve were created directly by God, that there was no evolution. Do you guys get what I'm saying? So we see this, this isn't something new. This, this, this, this conflict between science and religion. It's something that's gone on all the way back to, to the Enlightenment period. Right? But where we see it is are we going to make policy based on what we see as scientific evidence or are we going to be a land of faith? Right? So if the science says that evolution, that we have proof of evolution, but it seems to, to some people to contradict what the Bible says, should we just ignore the science and go by what the Bible says? What do you guys think? Do you see that divide? Hell, no. Okay, so I'm, I'm not asking actually what we would do, but I'm asking the, do you see the, the conflict? Right? And this conflict in what he's saying is before now our, our conflict or our national dialogue about who could be American was based on the idea of race and ethnicity, Right? Are we white, Anglo, Saxons or not? Essentially. Right. And now he's saying we're going to add religion and Science to the mix. Okay, what do you think about, do we see that today in American politics? Yes. Where do we see it? Well, in the president himself. The religion of almost all the presidents has been exactly the same. It would be really hard to be elected as president if you weren't a Christian. Okay, but now let's think about is there, do we see in American politics a divide between faith and science? I mean, you could talk about it. Well, never mind. That's not faith in science. That's just belief in not wanting to wear a mask in science. Okay, well that's faith in science. Right. They'll, people will say, well, God's going to protect me, I don't need to wear a mask. Oh yeah, I did hear a lady say she was covered in Jesus's blood and therefore she wasn't going to get it. Right, Exactly. Okay, and do we see that then? I mean that's a religious belief and people are entitled to their religious belief. But do we see that being enacted in public policy? Yes. Like for example, for example, the, you know, the fight, the debate of abortion and for or against abortion. I think really religion plays an important role in that. Uh huh. Okay, let's, let's, let's go to just the argument about the masks. What about was last weekend Texas and Mississippi decided no more masks. Right? We're not going to have masks anymore. They decided no man, they decided no mandatory mask thing. You were still able to wear your mask if you want to, giving you the freedom to decide. Right. Okay, but now here's the problem. Here's where we get into the, to the argument about the mask. Right? Because the mask isn't to protect you. The mask is to protect other people. Right. So does the government have a right to pass a law that says you are not allowed to put other people in danger and you have to do this to keep from putting other people in danger? You follow what I'm saying? So then the question is, does the, does the government have a right to put up a stop sign to keep you from running through the intersection at the same time somebody else is? You follow what I'm saying? Yes. Is that a constant? Is that a constitutional, is that a violation of the Constitution to put up a stop sign? No. Okay, so, so but now why do we think when we talk about this argument here, the argument then is, well, I don't have to wear a mask because, because you know, my God given right says I can do whatever I want. Right. And I don't have to wear a mask is that part of this, this. Or is it evidence of a split between faith in science, in American politics? It could be. I think it's more of common sense and people being tired of having to wear a mask all the time. So, like, how you gave them. You gave them the right to wear one now, like, they took it away from mandatory. But if you go into a restaurant, they can still require you to wear a mask. Like any. Anybody can. Like whatever. Whatever building or whatever activity or wherever you go, you have to follow the rules that are in place there at that time. So they took the one rule away of, hey, you have to wear a mask everywhere you go from transitioning, you know, no matter what. But you still have the right to choose to and not to. But if you go into a restaurant, they ask you to wear your mask. Either you wear the mask or you don't get served. Or that's where society is coming around is like, oh, no, you can't tell me what to do. You're infringing my rights. Well, you're infringing my right to not give me the right to tell you what to do. Get out of my business. You know? Yeah, it gets. It gets down. I just want to mention, you're right, it is ridiculous. But so. So for me, I've already been vaccinated because I'm an old man, and they always act, you know, they. They vaccinate the old men first. Right. So that means I don't really have to wear a mask or. And in fact, you know, I'm not really in danger of catching COVID Right. But I still wear the mask because I. I think that it's part of my responsibility as a citizen to set that example, to show that wearing a mask is a responsible thing to do. And I hate the mask. I absolutely hate it. It stinks. It makes my glasses fog up. It makes my glasses fall off. But I do it anyway because it's my. It's my responsibility as a citizen. Right. And. And it's not that I don't believe in God, but I don't think God wants me to test him on whether or not he's going to keep me from getting Covid. Right. You follow what I'm saying here? All right, let's move on to the last one. From my point of view, this chapter about the United States and 1920s is eerily reminiscent of the United States today. Do you agree or disagree? You don't have to agree with the professor. What do you guys think? Do you think that the 20s really shows us a lot of the. Does it really kind of give us a kind of an echo of what's happening today? I think. I think so, definitely. I think that there's a lot of huge comparisons that we can tie. Obviously, things are different. We're more progressed, but the same issues are still at hand. Okay, can you give an example? Like, obviously, the racial issues aren't, I'm gonna say, 100% the same, but there are still racial issues, and there are economic issues, and we are a huge consumer nation, even more than we were in the 20s. Yeah, I'd say the core issues are very similar. Racism is still a thing. Religion versus science is still a thing. What makes an American is still a thing, but how people react to those is becoming different. Okay, so what does that tell us, then? About. About American, about America today? We are progressing. Are we progressing? It's. We're progressing, but we're not. Definitely not there yet. I don't know. We're. We're still on the battle for our better. Better angels. Exactly. I think that that's it. I think that we have to recognize. I mean, that we look around us and we see all the stuff that's scary and that is disturbing, and we say, oh, my God, you know, this is horrible. But we have to recognize that we're in a perpetual battle for our better angels. And really, that doesn't mean that the old is always the bad and the new is always the good. Right. What it means is that the new wants to push us forward, and the old, if it's. If it's. If it's a. An effective force, will keep us from going too far forward too fast. Right. So it really tells us a lot about conservatives and liberals in America. The way that our politics today is defined is that if you're a liberal, you know, you're a communist, and if you're a Republican, or if you're a conservative, you're a Nazi. Right. And there's no. There's no compromise between the two. But I think in a healthy democracy, you have the liberals who are trying to move forward in ways of improving society, but you also have the conservatives who are voicing the best aspects of the past to keep us from moving too far forward too fast. Does that make sense to you guys? So I think that conservatives and liberals are. Are essential. That if we were all liberals, we'd go off the rails. And that if we were all conservatives, we'd also go off the rail. Right. You get what I'm saying? That this. The. The conflict between the two is a moderating force. Does that make sense to you guys? What do you guys think about. What do you guys think about that? I mean, it makes sense to. Why people would say that liberals are definitely progressive and stuff and trying to move forward. And I mean, the word conservative means, like, to conserve. So you're not really trying to change a bunch. And I wouldn't. I mean, I understand what you're saying about how, like, liberals are, like, considered communists and that, like conservatives are considered, like, racist and Nazis and stuff, but I mean, that doesn't really apply to everyone. And I know you're just saying it like, in a broad term and stuff, but I do agree with the fact that it is a driving force because it's always something that's gonna. There will be certain, like, things that are disagreement on, like, politics and like, views and stuff, but they'll definitely, like, bring some people together. Like, not everyone disagrees on every single politic, you know what I mean? So there's some probably common ground between the two extremes, if you. Far left and far right. But I agree with you saying that it definitely is a constant force that's. That's moving America, even though there are two completely different cultures for the most part. Well, there's way that way more than two. But let me just. I have to end here, unfortunately, or fortunately for you guys, I have to let you go. And it's been a great discussion. I wish we could spend more time with it. I hope that it was helpful to you and I will see you on Monday and we'll talk about the depression. Thank you, Professor. Live long and prosper. Professor, can I ask you a question after the class ends? Sure. Although I have a class in 10 minutes, but yeah, go ahead. Okay, I'll be quick. Professor. So for the discussion on the 20s. So the question is regarding the late submission. So I actually submitted the. Well, I couldn't submit the assignment because I was late to submit it. And I wanted to ask you if, you know, there's any way you would accept it. I'll tell you what, why don't you wait until Monday and ask me that question, okay. Because I'm thinking about changing my policy on submissions. And what I'm thinking I'm going to do is just leave them. Leave all the assignments open because it'll mark for me which ones are late. Okay. All right. Thank you, Professor. Okay. All right. Have a good day. You too. Oh, no, I was gonna say something about. About the topics we were talking about. Like, I'm. I'M a conservative, obviously, but I'm a progressive conservative. So my, my theory that I was thinking about the other day was that be able to progress, like, live your life how you want to live your life, but don't let that progression make you not be able to progress other people's opinions. Like the whole thing with he or she, like, what are you now? Like, I wasn't raised on that either you're a boy or a girl. Like, that's how I was raised and came up about it. But nowadays it's like, oh, did you sue my gender? Like, you can't. What do you mean? That's what the world was like. You're going to be offended. I get it. The one thing I want you to understand is that, that you don't ever have to defend your political opinion to me. You're entitled to it. Okay. And as I mentioned to you guys, I don't think that, I don't think in terms of, you know, liberal good, conservative bad, or the other way around. Okay. I, I think that both of them are necessary in, in a democratic society. And I think that we need to be able to express our opinions without being judged. Right. Yes. That's the real problem here is that we don't even listen to what each, each other have to say. We just say, okay, well, that guy's a liberal. I'm not going to listen to anything he's got to say. Right. Even though he might have a good, a good argument. You know what I'm saying? So, so, so, yeah, So I, I don't, I, I, Especially in a college class, we need to be able to state clearly and calmly what we believe and why we believe it. Yeah. You know, in, in a way that doesn't harm somebody else. So that, so, you know, I actually have had students complain to the administration that I'm too liberal, and I've had other students complain that I'm too conservative. Yeah. So, you know, that's where I, that's where I want to be. I don't want, I don't want my politics to, to guide your thinking. Yeah. I want you to be able to form your own thoughts. That's what I'm trying to get you to do. And if, you know, you can form. As we saw today, we read the same thing, but we see, we see things differently. Right. And that's not bad. That's good. Different interpretations of it all. Exactly. That's, that's why, like the, when you ask if it was an early resemblance of today's society, yeah, in a way. Yes and no. Yes. Yes. It's still a resemblance, because that's our foundation. That's where we came from, but we're not there anymore. We have progressed. And that's where I was going to say that we are eventually was. You said a perpetual, perpetual, perpetual battle. Meaning it's continuous, Correct? Exactly. Yeah. It's a continuous battle on how we're going to do and, like. Right. You know, you just got to be smart about it. Well, I mean, let people be them, but, like, don't try to control other people's opinions on the situation. But still, I agree. I think that. I think that we can disagree on everything else, but still have to respect each other as human beings. Yes. Okay. That's. That's the thing. Right. Okay. All right, listen, I got to get ready for another class. All right, Take care. Thanks. Monday. It's good to go.