It recording Europe. There's a growing feeling of hysteria condition to respond to all the threats. The rhetorical speeches of the Soviets. Mr. D said we will bury you. I don't subscribe to this point of view. You'll be such an ignorant thing to do. If the Russians love their children too, how can I save my little boy from Oppenheimer's deadly toy? There is no monopoly of common sense on either side of the political fence. We share the same biology regardless of ideology. Leave me. When I say to you, I hope the Russian love their children. There is no historical precedent to put the words in the mouth of the President. There's no such thing as a winnable. It's a lie we don't believe anymore. Mr. Reagan says we will protect you. I don't subscribe to this point of view. Believe me when I said to to you, I hope the Russians love their children too. For me and you. If the Russians love their children too. Sam. Do you guys like my song? Do you know why I played that song today? Because we're learning about Russians. Yeah, the Russians. How's everybody doing? Did you have a great spring break? I. I remodeled my kitchen and I'm sore everywhere. I'm soaring places I didn't even know I had, but that's my whining and anyway, so how's everybody doing? You're right. Questions, Comments? About anything? You're all set to finish this up. We're almost done. You guys know we're already up to the go ahead. I don't know if I just can't find it, but did you post the Exam 2 study guide or. Or can I just not find it? I haven't put it up yet. Or maybe I did. Let me see. You know what? I didn't put it up yet, but I'm thinking. Thank you for reminding me. I'll put that up today. Okay, thank you. Anybody else? Any other questions? Today we're going to start talking about the Cold War and we're going to. We're going to actually divide it into two different pieces. The first part will be about basically going up to the end of the Korean War. And then the next part will be about mostly the Vietnam War. Okay, so. So that's where we're going to go. And then after that, we'll talk about civil rights. Let me go ahead and show the vid the screen here. Hold on a second. So you guys see my. My slide set there? Okay, so the first thing, we want to think about a couple things really. The. The first one is that we, we think of the Cold War as something that was a very dangerous and kind of anxious period of time, but it wasn't really a serious conflict. But that is wrong. The, there was a lot of, there was a lot of shooting and killing going on in the Cold War. It's just the reason why they, they call it a Cold War is because the United States and the Soviet Union never actually got to the point of conflict, although they were closed a couple times. But instead what happened was that the Soviets and the United States fought wars through proxies. So there were wars in Central Asia and there were wars in Southeast Asia and there were wars in Spanish America where the United States and the Soviets fought through proxies. And there were a lot of people that were killed in those conflicts. But the reason why we call it cold again is because the United States and Soviets didn't actually engage in direct conflict with each other. Okay. And the reason for that was because it was too dangerous. It had become too dangerous. And we'll hopefully see kind of how that works here in the next couple of lectures. Okay, so, well, where does the Cold War start? And the next thing is that we generally think of the Cold War as really coming right out of World War II, meaning that the Cold War, we can pinpoint the time when the United States and the Soviet Union and their allies stopped cooperating against the Germans and the Japanese and set out on their own kind of course, with their own strategy. And that was right after the surrender of Germany. There was a conference at a place called Potsdam. Potsdam was the palace of the Kaiser in Berlin. And there was a conference between the United States and the Soviet Union and France and Britain over the post war security arrangement. And it was at this conference that the Soviets stopped cooperating with the West. Okay, the, the reason why we won't, I mean, that's when we say that the Cold War actually started. But in reality, the Cold War started much earlier. And it really started during the Russian Revolution, which we talked about briefly when we talked about World War I. And one of the outcomes of the Russian Revolution was the establishment of the Soviet state. And the Soviet state was driven by the idea of a communist revolution. If you guys. We've talked briefly about the strategy of Communism, the Marxist strategy, which was that there would be a spontaneous revolution of the working classes would rise up and overthrow the, the bourgeoisie and then they would establish a, essentially a worker's paradise that never happened. And over time, Marxist thinkers tried to theorize why, even though Marx's prediction Didn't come true how he was still right. And one of the ways that they did that was by saying that the, the revolution wasn't going to be spontaneous, that it had to be led. And so there was a, there was a vanguard of the revolution, intellectual vanguard. And this idea was taken up by Vladimir Lenin. Vladimir Lenin was the, one of the, one of the, I guess you could say, founders of the Soviet state. And his idea was that, that the revolution had to be led. Okay? And so, but the, the Marxist theory was that once the revolution had started, then it would spread everywhere. So Marx had said that the revolution when he wrote in 1848, from his point of view, the revolution is now and it's going to end up everywhere. But in reality, the Marxist revolution happened never and nowhere. All right? But when the Russians had their revolution and they established the Soviet state, their idea was that they were the beginning of this worldwide communist revolution and that from that point of view, they adopted a stated foreign policy of opposing capitalism, of spreading communism. The idea was that they were going to spread communism everywhere, that this communist revolution would happen everywhere, but it would happen. It had to be led, and it would be led by the Soviets. So this, this was, goes back to 1924. 1924 was when the Soviet state was established and they, they stated that they, that their intention was to overthrow capitalism. And of course, with capitalism goes the idea of liberalism, the idea of democracy, and, and those things that we, that we tend to believe in here in the West. Right, okay, so that's where the Cold War started. There was, there was really no, there was really no, there was no way to compromise between capitalism and communism, because communism, the theory behind communism was that it couldn't be successful anywhere unless it was successful everywhere. All right? So, so even though they established a communist state in the Soviet Union, from their point of view, the revolution had to continue until communism was established everywhere. And that meant the overthrow of the United States and Britain and all the Western democracies. You guys are following me here. And so this is one of the reasons why after World War I, there was a, a big, what they call Red scare, where people were afraid of the Soviets. They were afraid that the communists were coming, the Reds are coming, and they're going to take over the country. And that kind of subsided, but it didn't really end. And when the United States allied with the Soviet Union, that alliance was an alliance of convenience. The alliance was that both sides had a greater enemy. And, and so I think that the best way that, that you could Describe the alliance was the way that Winston Churchill described it when he said that if Hitler invaded hell, he would be allied with Satan. Okay? It was. It was an alliance that was meant to oppose Germany. But once the Germans had been defeated, there was nothing to hold the alliance together. Okay? And so then what happens is that they come together at this conference at Potsdam in Germany. And the idea then is that they're going to established a security system for Europe after World War II, but the Soviets withdraw. They refuse to compromise. And the reason why is because from their point of view, they can't compromise with the west because it's capitalist. And so instead, they established their own zone of control in Eastern Europe. And when we look at this map here, you can see that basically the line between what's purple and what's not purple is what we will eventually end up calling the Iron Curtain. Okay. And the idea is that Germany, basically where this line is, is where the Soviet troops had stopped at the end of the war. So they continued to control all the territory that they had occupied during the war. And they established puppet states basically, that were. Were. Had allegiance to, were. Were dominated by the Soviet Union, including Poland, East Germany, Czechoslovani, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and all these other states here. Okay. All right, so that's when we see the rhetorical beginning of the Cold War is right after the war, Winston Churchill, who's no longer Prime Minister of England, comes to America to deliver a speech in Missouri with President Truman sitting on the stage with him, and he declares that an Iron curtain has fallen across the continent of Europe. And that's that. That basically that line that I showed you. Okay, and. And this is. This is where we see the United States start to. To develop its opposition to Soviet expansion. All right, are you guys following this? Does this make sense? Do you guys. Questions? Comments? All right, so what was the last thing you just said about the expansion? I said that the United States and its allies, including England and France, start to take seriously the necessity to oppose Soviet expansion. Does that make sense? Yes, it did. Thank you. All right. Okay. So now one of the things that the Americans were kind of taken aback. The Americans, I'd have to say, were. Were a little naive. And not. Not just the Americans. I mean, the. Winston Churchill at some, at one point thought that he could recruit Joseph Stalin to be part of the Democratic club. But the Americans thought that since the United States and the Soviets had been allies in World War II, that they would continue to have friendly relations after World War II. And so they were kind of taken Aback about why they saw this opposition coming from the Soviet Union. And so there was a diplomat who had been stationed in, in Moscow for a long period of time. He wasn't the ambassador, he was a career diplomat. And they asked this him, he was an expert on Soviet policy and they asked him to explain why the Soviets were behaving the way that they were. And he responded with an 8,000 word telegram which ended up being called the long telegram. Does anybody want to guess why it was called the long telegram? It was 8,000 words. Yeah, because it was long. Okay. So at any rate, in this telegram he describes Soviet strategy in Europe. Okay, let's just take a look at the strategy here. That the Soviet policy is motivated by European political history. Okay. So the Soviets, basically their interest is they want to protect themselves from Germany because they've been invaded by Germany twice in the same century. And they also want to be able to control, sorry, this area here because it's really the only warm water port that the Soviets have is here in the Crimean Peninsula. Right. So they, they are interested in controlling this area because they were strangled, this is what had caused them to be knocked out of the war in World War I. So they wanted to control this area and they wanted to establish a buffer between particularly Germany and, and the Soviet Union. All right, so that's the kind of European historical part of the, of their strategy. The other part of the strategy was that again, they wanted to, to expand communism everywhere. Right. So, so they wanted to expand communism into Western Europe and, and they would do it either by elections or by force, essentially. Right, okay. And we'll talk more about that in just a second. But the point here is that the Soviets then are not interested in peaceful coexistence again, because Communism can't work anywhere unless it works everywhere. And they are determined to advance socialism. They, what Kennan argued was that the way to, to counter Soviet strategy was what was called containment. And basically the idea of containment thinks of communism as a, as a kind of a cancer. Right? And it's a cancer that's inoperable. You can't cut it out because the Soviet Union was too powerful to, to confront militarily. But you could, you could, you could keep it from spreading. And so his idea then was not to confront communism but to keep it from spreading. And that's going to be the strategy that the west will adopt. And we'll talk about that in just a couple minutes. Right. The main, the other kind of thing here is that the Soviet power was impervious to the logic of reason, it's highly sensitive to the logic of force. And one of the things that Kennan noted was that if, if the Kremlin, if the Soviets were met with strong resistance, then they would back down. So what he suggested was a policy that comes to be known as brinksmanship, meaning that if the Soviets. How should I say this? If the Soviets. If the Soviets make an advance, an aggressive advance, and their advance is met by the same amount of aggression, then that eventually they will back down. So, so the idea of brinksmanship, then is that both sides continue to advance aggression until it reaches the brink of war, and then once you reach the brink of war, the Soviets will back down. Okay, so that's going to be part of the Amer, the Western strategy. All right, you guys are with me. Questions, Comments about this. Now, here's the thing. The thing about the Kennan telegram was that it was intended to describe Soviet policy in Europe. The way that the United States interpreted it was that this policy should be enforced everywhere. And so after World War II, we're going to see a. A movement towards socialism in. In many places in the world, which, again, we'll talk about that in just a few minutes. Much of it is not driven by. By the Soviets. Much of it is. Although it is supported by the Soviets, much of it is actually driven by the fact that many of these countries that were formerly colonized now find themselves independent but poor. And so socialism, to them looks like a good strategy. Right? And so what will happen is you will see the Soviets on the one hand, publicly stating that their. Their strategy is to overthrow communism, excuse me, capitalism and, and overthrow communism everywhere. Excuse me, to establish communism everywhere. And at the same time, we see countries like Southeast Asia and different countries in Africa and different countries in South America who are kind of playing dabbling, I guess you could say, with socialism. And the Americans are going to attribute it all to Moscow. Right? So this. This phrase that I put here, monolithic world communist movement based in Moscow, what this says is that wherever you see communism in the world, the Soviets are behind it. It's not true, but this is the way the Americans are going to approach the subject. And this is going to be. This is going to really lay the foundation for a lot of tragedy that's going to follow, okay? Because as I mentioned, there are places in the world where people are making a choice for socialism, but the Americans will not see that as a free choice. They'll see that as something that's being driven from Moscow. And so they will Be opposed to it. And again, we'll see how that works here in the next couple of lectures. All right, questions, comments about any of this. Could you go back to the long telegram note real quick, Professor? Sure. Thank you. This one, I just needed to write like two more notes. Well, you know these are all online, right? Oh, yeah, yeah, I forgot. You post these. They're all on canvas. Thank you. All right, so moving right along then, we can, we can characterize the Western response led by the United States to the Soviet Union's expansionist strategy as being. As consisting of three pillars. All right, so it's kind of like a three legged stool, if you, if you would think, if you could think about it that way. Right. And, and the three pillars or the three legs of this stool are, are ideological, economic and military. All right, so, so let me just go through these and what I'm going to do is I'm going to talk about events that happened in Europe that cause these responses to be. To be formulated. Okay. The first one has to do with the idea of expanding communism. All right, so one of the things that happens after World War II is that even though the war had been won by the Western countries, there was a lot of economic unrest in all throughout Europe because Europe had been devastated by the war. And particularly in, in southeastern Europe, there is a lot of unrest and a lot of poverty. And there are Soviet or I should say communist movements, revolutionary movements in both Greece and Turkey as well as other places. And there is a fear that the Soviets, well, the Soviets are supporting the communist revolutionaries, obviously. And there's a fear that if the west doesn't respond to that, then, then they will fall to communism. All right? And so, so what happens then is that the, the, the President Truman will go to Congress and ask for money to support these, the, the regimes in Greece and Turkey. Keeping in mind that he's, he's, he's phrasing his support for the governments in Greece and Turkey as a support for democracy because this is what drives American foreign policy. American foreign policy is to support democracy. The problem is that neither one of these countries are democratic countries. But it doesn't matter because what happens is that out of that debate, I guess you could say, comes what we call the Truman Doctrine. And the Truman Doctrine is that the United States will oppose the spread of communism anywhere. All right, so that's the first, the first pillar, the ideological pillar that says that the United States will oppose the spread of communism everywhere. It doesn't mean that the United States is going to try to defeat communism, but it means that it won't allow it to spread. Okay. Questions? Comments about that? All right, the second part then is again, there's a lot of. There are many people. Well, let's, let's look at it this way. Let's go back to when we were talking about the Depression. And one of the problems with the Depression was that people were starving. People didn't have what they needed to live, and they were afraid that they weren't going to be able to get what they needed to live. And so one of the solutions that many people thought would be appropriate was communism or socialism. And we saw, for example, in the United States that some people thought socialism was going to be a good idea. And recall that I told you before, the, the only time socialism seems like a good idea is when you don't have anything, because it's about sharing, right? If, if you don't have the. The, the example I always use is if, if you have a car and I don't have a car, then I think you should lend me your car. But if I have a car and you don't have a car, I think you should get your own car. I'm saying. And that's the idea that the kind of appeal of socialism is that when nobody has anything, then the idea of sharing everything seems like a good idea. And that was a situation in Europe and many other places in the world after World War II, that the economies had been devastated. And so there was a fear on the part of the west, particularly the Americans, that if this economic crisis wasn't addressed, that. That there was a real possibility that people in Europe would actually vote their way into communism. And so what happened was that the United States decided to or proposed a conference. They called together all of the former participants in the war, including the Soviet Union and the Eastern. The word. What they call the Warsaw Pact countries, right? To that. What the United States basically said was, you guys come up with a plan for economic recovery and tell us how much it's going to cost and we'll give you the money. Okay? So. So that obviously the Eastern bloc didn't participate because the whole point of it was to defeat communism. But the Western countries, that's, that's. Most of these other countries come together and they come up with a plan for economic recovery, and they. The United States actually gives them the money. It's called the Marshall Plan because it was announced by Secretary of State Marshall in 1947. But the idea is to bring about economic recovery in Western Europe so that communism no longer seems like a good solution. This is probably the single most successful American foreign policy initiative ever because the United States forked over the money. But within just a few months, the, the economy of Western Europe starts to rebound. And the result of it is going to be that the, the, the appeal of socialism lessens. It kinds of kind of vanishes. You guys are with me on this. So, so that's going to be the second pillar then, the economic pillar that the United States helps to rebuild the economy of Western Europe, including Germany, for the purpose of, of, of making communism socialism less attractive. And, and it worked. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions, Comments about that. Okay. The final one actually ends up being the military one. And, and here's. Here's what, here's where we can kind of see where it comes from. During the Potsdam conference, the, the Americans and the Soviets and the Germans and the French basically had divided Berlin into four different zones of occupation. All right? At the end of the war, Berlin was about 100 miles behind the Russian lines. I should say east of the Russian lines. Right? Okay. So, so basically then what happened was that the city of Berlin is connected to West Germany by a single road and an air corridor. And at the Potsdam conference, they divided Berlin into four different zones of occupation, which eventually will be consolidated into two, east and West Berlin. East Berlin will be controlled by the Soviets or the East German Communist Party. West Berlin will be controlled by the Western allies, basically, it will be controlled by the German government in West Germany. But it's an island in the middle of a sea of communism, essentially. So, so again, we have this half of a city that is, that is 100 miles inside the Soviet territory, connected only by a single road and an air corridor. Okay. And, and at the end of the war, both sides, the Soviets and the west, contemplated continuing the war. Churchill basically said that the west should immediately declare war on the Soviets to take over the rest of Europe because if they didn't, they would be, they would be in conflict with them for a long time, which turned out to be true. Right. But people were done with war. They didn't want any more war, so they stopped. But nevertheless, the Soviets still thought that there may be some, some benefit to stressing the Western alliance or the Western powers militarily. And, and so one thing that happens then is that the Soviets will close the road between West Germany and West Berlin. And the, the reason some people say that the road is closed is that they're provoking the west, that Stalin was provoking the west provoking an attack by the west, saying that the west. Hoping that the west would then use military force to try to reopen the road, which would then lead to further conflict, which at which point then Stalin would hope that he could. He could take the rest of Europe. You guys are following me here. Okay, does that make sense? You guys got that? But that's not what happened. What happened instead was that the west mounted an airlift. You guys have heard of it, the Berlin airlift, right. And the Berlin. What they did was that they started to supply everything that was needed in West Berlin by air. So there was a constant airlift of goods from the west into Berlin, which lasted almost a year. And then at the end of that year, the Soviets reopened the road. And this situation then remained until the 1990s. Okay. But what it showed was that the Soviets were a military threat in Western Europe. And so what happened was that the United States formed an alliance called the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, or NATO. Right? And this alliance was all of the. Essentially all the green countries. And the purpose of the alliance was to oppose the spread of Soviet. Opposed Soviet expansion in Western Europe. Okay, so. So that's the third leg then. The third leg of the. Of the strategy is the military leg. So we have ideological. The United States will oppose the spread of communism everywhere. Economic. The United States will. Will help to rebuild the economy of Western Europe so that. So that communism doesn't seem to be attractive and military, meaning that they would. That the west would stand strong against Soviet military expansion in Europe. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions, comments? Now, one of the things that. Are there any questions? You guys got this. All right? So one thing that you'll notice is that I've been talking about Europe, right? And, and we think of the Cold War as being a worldwide conflict, which it was. Right? Here's where we're going to see a problem. Right? The problem is that the. The conflict in Europe ends up being. I think that you can actually contain it within the rhetoric, the language of the Cold War, Right? So. So the Cold War basically was a fundamental contest between socialism and capitalism, but the rest of the world was under a different set of pressures. Okay, and let me just kind of show you here. Where we see the Cold War happening is in the Northern Hemisphere, right? And where we see the Southern hemisphere, I should say the Southern hemisphere is experiencing a different crisis. And this crisis is known as decolonization. Between 1945 and. And 1965, all of the countries that were colonized by Europe in the Southern Hemisphere are going to become independent the problem is that when they become independent, they're going to. Their economies will be crippled by a century or more of colonialism. Because colonialism, the colonial powers ruled these countries and dominated these countries for the benefit of extracting value. So all of the infrastructure and all of the economies are set up to provide wealth to the mother countries, to the colonizing powers, but not for the, the people of the, of the colonies. And so what will happen then is that many of these colonies are going to be struggling, or I should say many of these independent countries now are going to be struggling with collapsed economies, and some of them are going to think that socialism might not be a bad idea. Okay, so as I mentioned to you guys, if you don't have anything, then socialism seems like a good idea, right? And what will happen then is that those countries will be targets of the Soviets in terms of their strategy of spreading communism. Because basically what ends up happening then is that the process of decolonization essentially gets intertwined with the process of the Cold War. And so what ends up happening is that both the Soviets and the Western alliance will see these struggling countries as opportunities for expanding their influence. And basically what will end up happening is that these countries that were formerly colonized will be asked to make a choice by both the United States and the Soviet Union to choose what side they're on. Because the way that the world looked to the Soviets and the Americans was that there were only two things, only two worlds. There was the first world, which was the American world, and then there was the second world, which was the communist world. Okay, you guys are with me. And both of these are saying you have to choose. You have to be on one side or the other. Okay, you guys get it? Well, the problem is that I should say it this way. Well, we can call it a problem, I guess. Some countries, starting with India. India was ruled by a man named Nehru. And Nehru realized that neither the Soviet Union nor the United States were really interested in their benefit. Both of them were interested in the expansion of their own influence, but neither of them was really interested in the benefit of the formerly colonized countries. And so what Nehru did was he proposed a third alternative called the Non Aligned Movement. The Non Aligned Movement. What it means is that these countries are not aligned with either the Soviets or the Americans. You guys get what I'm saying? These countries are saying we're not, we're not going to choose a side. We're going to stay out of it. Because what, your conflict has nothing to do with our crisis, essentially. And so that's where we see the beginning, the creation of what's called the Third World. All right? The first world is the American and their alliance. The Second world is the communist bloc. The Third World is all of those countries that refuse to, to choose. Okay? And, and so one of the things that we'll notice then, if I asked you, what is a Third World country, how do you know something is a Third World country? How would you, how would you respond? What characterizes a Third World country? The way that I learned it is just like countries that are less developed. Countries that are less developed. Okay. And that results in what it's like technology and like, like, I guess, military expansion on top of that, like economic power. Okay, so if, if they're not developed, then what are they economically? They're poor, right? We think about Third World countries to say, any place where it's poor, they say, what's the Third World country? Right. And the reason for that is because all of these countries that were not aligned were, were poor, right? But they were not aligned because they were not called the Third World because they were poor. They were called the Third World because they were not aligned. You guys get what I'm saying? So Third World doesn't necessarily, or at least originally didn't mean just poor countries. It meant countries that were not engaged in the Cold War. You guys are with me. So the only reason why it's important for you to know that is that when you're at your next academic cocktail party and somebody brings up the Third World, you could say, oh, did you know? So I'm sure you guys go to those parties, right? All right. So at any rate, so that's, that's the, the main thing that we want to point out here is that there's, there's basically two different major processes happening at the same time between 1964 or actually between 1945 and going on at least to the middle of the, of the 60s. Right? And that is the, the Cold War essentially in the Northern hemisphere and decolonization in the Southern Hemisphere. Okay, you guys are with me. And, and what's going to happen, the tragedy is going to be that the superpowers, the Soviet Union and the United States are going to see decolonization only in terms of their own ideological conflict. And the result is going to be that the United States, for example, will look at, for example, in Guatemala. In Guatemala, they're going to establish a socialist government that's not influenced by the Soviets, but the Americans, as soon as they see socialism, will say, Aha. Moscow. And so the United States will oppose them. Right. And the result then will be where the United States could recognize the poverty that's trying to be addressed and assist. Instead, they make them into enemies. You follow what I'm saying here? And this is going to be the problem that we're going to see it really everywhere. But the most painful place we're going to see it is going to be in Vietnam. Because the people of Vietnam want to be free of French colonialism, but they don't particularly want to be communist. But the United States will see the struggle only in terms of communism versus capitalism or democracy, how the Americans say it. And as a result of that, well, instead of trying to uplift the Vietnamese people, they'll bomb them. And we'll just see how that goes. Right. So anyway, questions, Comments about any of that? All right, I'm gonna go do one more thing here, and then we'll be done. All right? So do you guys remember when we talked about the Versailles Treaty and the United States rejected the Versailles Treaty? Does anybody remember why? Because Congress. It took away Congress's power to start a war, and they could just. Exactly. Okay, so the United States never joined the League of Nations. Right. But after World War II, the United States actually did create a new organization called the United nations. And it was based on the same idea as. As Wilson's idea of collective security. And, and the idea, then again, was that if. If it's collective security, that means everybody's on the same side. And if one. One country attacks another country, it's. It's the same as attacking everybody. Right? And that's to prevent. Is prevent a small country from trying to attack another country, because then they'll be at war with everybody. That's the idea. Right. Okay, so what happens is that. Well, let's just take a look here. This is Korea. Korea had been dominated by the Japanese since the beginning of the 20th century. And after World War II, Korea becomes independent, but it ends up being divided between the Soviets and the Americans. Okay? And so the result was, instead of creating one Korea after World War II, there were actually two Koreas, okay? And one of them established a Soviet style communist regime, and the other one established an American style capitalist regime. And that's really the same way as it is now. Okay, but what happened was that the. The North Koreans, actually, the Soviets and the North Koreans thought that it would be possible for them to overrun the Korean peninsula and just establish one Korea as a communist country. So. So now this is an example of Soviet Expansionism, Right. That the Soviets want to expand communism. And the way that you're going to do it is by force in this particular case. Right. So the Soviets invade, or actually the North Koreans invade South Korea, and the South Korean military is pushed all the way back to this little tiny area right here. Right. But what happens is that because South Korea is in the United Nations, President Truman goes to the United nations and asks the United nations to declare war, and they do. Right? And then Truman goes to Congress and said, hey, we're at war. We need money. Right. Okay, so. So that sounds a lot like what the Republicans were afraid of when they talked about the League of Nations, doesn't it? Because the United States didn't declare war. It was the. Actually the United nations that declared war, and the United States was dragged into it by this treaty obligation. You guys are with me. Okay, well, anyway, so that turned out to be true. But at any rate, what happens is that the United States does then go to war in Korea. And the, the commander of the US forces in the Pacific, Douglas MacArthur, who was a great hero of the war, many people thought of him as, as one of the two major generals of the war. He was him and Eisenhower. Right. And, and MacArthur created, engineered a strategy of a massive amphibious landing here at Inchon, which cut the. The lines of the North Koreans, and they were forced to withdraw. And so then the question is that once the, so once the North Koreans had re. Crossed the line, MacArthur said, well, we should go ahead and just take over Korea and, and then we won't have this. This threat of communism to worry about anymore. The kind of thing that would have caused some caution was that the Chinese had threatened that if the United States invaded North Korea, then the Chinese would oppose that invasion. But the Americans were not too concerned about the Chinese because the Chinese had been fighting a civil war that had just ended. And so they were. They were weak, essentially. They thought they had more manpower than they knew what to do with, but they were essentially militarily weak. So the Americans were not that concerned about China. And, and they did eventually convince Truman that to go ahead and invade North Korea. And, and they did actually take all of. Almost all of North Korea. You can see this purple line here. But at that point, then the Chinese did invade, and they again pushed the Americans and their allies back. And, and eventually what ended up happening was that they negotiated an armistice. One of the things that, that happened in, as part of this incident was that when the Chinese invaded North Korea, MacArthur and his generals proposed to Truman that They should, they should just drop nuclear bombs on China. But Truman, by now, or actually by now, the Soviet Union had their own nuclear weapons. And Truman realized that it was no longer possible to fight a total war. You could no longer use whatever means you had at your disposal, because if you started a nuclear war, the outcome would be the destruction of everything or could be. Right. And so Truman basically said, no, you can't use nuclear weapons. And, and in, in response to that, MacArthur, who's general of the army, is going to publicly criticize Truman. Okay. What would be the problem with the General of the army publicly criticizing the President? Isn't the President supposed to be the Commander in chief of the Army? That's exactly right. This President. So it, he was publicly criticizing his boss. Right. And what was his boss's response? We fired him. He fired MacArthur. Right. And. But that caused a lot of damage. It caused a lot of unrest in the United States because people loved MacArthur and they couldn't care less about Truman. Right. But Truman actually ended up firing MacArthur, which probably didn't help his political career. But at the same time, it, it demonstrated that the era of, of total war was over. The United States could no longer engage in, or really nobody could engage in total war any longer because of the, the existence of nuclear weapons. You guys are with me. And, and so MacArthur complained about it, and he gave a famous speech at, at West Point that old soldiers never die, they just fade away. But then he did die, so I guess he was wrong about that too. All right, so anyway, questions, Comments about that? I have a question about the armistice line. Is that where the line was before the war began? Actually, the line is the 38th parallel. Okay, that was, that was the line before the war began, but this is where it ended up, basically almost where it was to begin with. Does that answer your question? Any other questions? All right, okay, so now one last thing, and then we're done. Okay. Remember we talked about the Red Scare that happened after World War I. The same thing happens after World War II. The Soviets are vocally aggressive. Basically, the Khrushchev said, as it mentioned in the song at the beginning of the, of the lecture, that he would bury us. Now, he didn't mean that he was going to do it with a shovel. He meant that he were going to do it economically, but that didn't happen. At any rate, Americans were, were very concerned about, about Communism. And so basically, if you wanted to be a politician in the 1950s and the 1960s, you had to be a very staunch anti Communist Right. And Americans were afraid of Communism even though most Americans didn't even know what it was. Okay? At any rate, what will happen is that there's going to be a. There's going to be one politician, his name is Joseph mcarthy. He's a senator from Wis. Wisconsin, and he's going to muster. He's going to essentially weaponize this, this kind of, in many ways, unreasonable fear of communism. Okay? Now we can say this. The first thing we can say is, was there a threat? Yes, there was a threat. The Soviets said that if they could, they would destroy the United States. Right. The problem is that Americans were never going to fall for communism. Why? Americans don't like communism because they like property. Like, yeah, we don't want to give up our stuff. Exactly. All right? So, so the, the idea that this, that we were going to be sneaked in, sneaked into or duped into communism is really ridiculous, okay? But it was enough to keep people in fear. It was enough to keep people's attention. It was enough to mobilize people, okay? And the way that this guy Truman did, excuse me, McCarthy. The way that McCarthy did that was he said, he basically, he said that he had the list of 100 names of people working in the State Department who were actually Soviet spies. Okay? Now, he never produced this, this list, okay? Nobody ever knew who was on the list, but it gave him a lot of attention, right? And he started. He started basically holding hearings against different people who were accused of being communist. And what happened then was that kind of elevated into a situation where all you had to do was be accused of being a communist. And, and that was the end of your career. That's one of the reasons why many people, particularly in American government, actually accused Martin Luther King of being a Communist. Right? Martin Luther King was nowhere near being a Communist. He was never going to be a communist. Right. Because he was a Christian. But nevertheless, if you can label him a Communist and that makes him an enemy, you guys get what I'm saying? And it was because of this kind of atmosphere of fear that was. That was created by McCarthy, who was using it really for his own political. Well being, his own political influence. All right, okay. So, so what ends up happening is that McCarthy makes a big mistake and he takes on the army. And, and I'm going to show you a couple of clips here, but one of the first clip I'm going to show you is going to be when finally people realized that McCarthy had had overstepped the bounds of democracy. Here's the thing. The problem with what McCarthy was doing was that he was using the same tactics as the people that he opposed. Right. And one of the things that I think that this other guy we're going to see here in a minute says you can't defend democracy abroad by preventing it at home or by destroying it at home. Right? And that's what he was doing. Okay? He. He was basically running a campaign of innuendo that was destroying people's lives. Right? So let me just show you this one clip here at one of the hearings. Oh, wait a minute. I. I got to do something else. You guys couldn't hear that, right? Could you hear it? Yeah, I have to fix this. Hold on a second. May I say that Mr. Wells talks about this being cruel and reckless. He was just baiting. He has been baiting Mr. Cohen here for hours, requesting that Mr. Cohen, before sundown, get out of any department of the government anyone who is serving the communist cause. Now, I just give this man's record, and I want to say, Mr. Welch, that it has been labeled long before he became a member as early as 1944. May we not drop this? We know he belonged to the Lawyers Guild. And Mr. Cohen nods his head at me. I did you, I think, no personal injury, Mr. Cohen. I meant to do you. No first, please. And if I did, I beg your pardon? Let us not assassinate this lad further, Senator. You've done enough. Have you no sense of decency, sir? At long last, have you left no sense of decency? Listen, I know this hurts you, Mr. Welch. I'll say. May I say, Mr. Chairman, as the point of personal privacy, I'd like to finish this, Senator. I think it hurts you too, sir. I'd like to finish this. I know Mr. Cohen would rather not have me go into this. I intend to, however. And Mr. Mr. Welch talks about any sense of decency. It seems that Mr. Welch. Crap. Okay, hold on a second. I could go back to my share again. Did you guys. You guys saw the video clip, right? Okay, so you heard the video clip, right? That was the. It's a very famous. Although you might not have heard of it, it's a very famous event where McCarthy. McCarthy was actually called out. And then after that, he eventually was ended. Ended up being censured by the. By the. By the Congress. Okay, but let me just. Somehow or other I got this all screwed up. The guy that you saw at the end, the younger looking guy, his name was Roy Cohn. He was actually Donald Trump's lawyer. Okay? He was Donald Trump's lawyer in New York and his mentor. Right. And we're going to be. You guys probably, if you looked at the syllabus, you know that on Monday we're going to be discussing chapters five and six of the. Of the Meacham book that I gave you guys. Right. And one of those chapters is about McCarthy. And I think that you'll find that the. I think that you may find some very interesting parallels between the career of Joseph McCarthy and the career of later politicians. All right? So anyway, that's something that. For you to look forward to. Questions, comments about any of that. I want to show this other thing. This is one of the things that ended up having a major effect on public opinion. And it was by a journalist named Edward R. Murrow. He was. He was really the kind of Walter Cronkite before Walter Cronkite. Okay. And he, he had a show, and he had a kind of a conflict with. With McCarthy. And this is how he ended up. Ended up basically denouncing McCarthy. So let me just go ahead and show this. Oh, wait a minute. Can you guys hear it? You can't hear it? Okay. We also don't see it. Well, let me fix it for you then. Although I don't know why you can't see it. But anyway, we'll fix it. Let me do this. All right. Now can you see it? It's loading, I think. Earlier the Senator asked, upon what meat does this our Caesar feed? Had he looked three lines earlier in Shakespeare's Caesar, he would have found this line, which is not altogether inappropriate. The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves. No one familiar with the history of his country can deny that congressional committees are useful. It is necessary to investigate before legislating. But the line between investigating and persecuting is a very fine one. And the junior Senator from Wisconsin has stepped over it repeatedly. His primary achievement has been in confusing the public mind as between the internal and the external threats of Communism. We must not confuse dissent with disloyalty. We must remember always that accusation is not proof and that conviction depends upon evidence and due process of law. We will not walk in fear one of another. We will not be driven by fear into an age of unreason. If we dig deep in our history and our doctrine and remember that we are not descended from fearful men, not from men who feared to write, to speak, to associate, and to defend causes that were, for the moment, unpopular. This is no time for men who oppose Senator McCarthy's methods to keep silent or for Those who approve we can deny our heritage and our history, but we cannot escape responsibility for the result. There is no way for a citizen of a republic to abdicate his responsibilities as a nation. We have come into our full inheritance at a tender age. We proclaim ourselves as indeed we are the defenders of freedom wherever it continues to exist in the world. But we cannot defend freedom abroad by deserting it at home. The actions of the junior senator from Wisconsin have caused alarm and dismay amongst our allies abroad and given considerable comfort to our enemies. And whose fault is that? Not really his. He didn't create this situation of fear, he merely exploited it, and rather successfully. Cassius was right. The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves. Good night and good luck. Good night and good luck. It's a great movie. I actually was. That was a good movie, but this was not the movie. This is the real thing. Oh, yeah. No. Yeah, yeah. So. So what did you guys think of that? Thought it was very well spoken. I mean, I don't know. I find that stuff super interesting. Like back in the day when. When everybody like when everybody like conformed and like, was like, oh yeah, like this is like everything we need to like, follow and everything. Like the Russians are this and that and everything. I think that's super interesting. But I like. I like how they worded that because that really gives like the like the scare effect, you know what I mean? Like the, like the, like the propaganda type of wave. So. So one of the things that. One of the reasons why I think it's important for us to study history is because sometimes the words that were spoken long time ago or in another time actually are appropriate for us. What do you guys think? I think that, you know, we. We definitely are based like history goes in circles and we're basically going through the same thing but with a different culture. And basically they'll say anything's communism and people would reject it. And that's kind of like. And it exploded more with the media that we are in. So for us to learn from the past, they're reusing the same tropes again on us. And we should like realize. And that's how we like overcome the same thing. But it's actually happening over again. Yeah, it's kind of like if. If we. Let's say we put our hand on the stove and we get burned and it hurts really bad. And then we take our hand off the stove and we just. We just forget about it. And next time we're faced with the stove, what Are we gonna know better? Anybody else? I think that it was nice that at that time there was somebody that enough people admired that they listened to his opinion. I'm not sure we have that now. I'm not sure we have like a voice that, you know, most people would listen to. Well, what about me? I'm kidding. No, I mean, that's, you know, the thing about it is, you know that when he said what he said, you can be sure that there were a number of other people who said, oh, he's full of. Would be like, you know, Fox News and msnbc. Right? So. So that part of it's really not different. Okay. It's just that his side seemed to be the more reasonable. And I think that that's really the theme of that book that we're reading is that when Americans are faced with this danger, we tend to somehow find the better angels. You see what I'm saying? And I think that this is an example of that. And so anyway, I hope that you guys will read those two chapters. Any questions or comments about anything, you guys are all good. I'm going to be here for office hours at 1 to 2. So other than that, I guess you guys are done. We'll be back on. On. On Wednesday and hit it again. Wednesday we'll do Vietnam. Thank you, Professor. Live long and prosper. Thank you. You. It.