Eyes, your only rivers run cold these city lights they shine as silver and gold Duck from the night your eyes as black as coal Walk on by, walk on through Walk to your and don't look back for here I am. Conover the wheels fly, the color spins throughout the hall Red wine that punches the skin Face to face In a dry and waterless place Walk on by, walk on through so said to beseech your answer in this time Stay tonight in life I'm only asking But I. I think you know Come on, take me away Come on, take me away Come on, take me home, Sam. And if the mountain should crumble all I disappear into the sea Not a tear, no, not I Stay this time Stay tonight Word after this Sake. My song. What is the unforgettable fire? Was it the incendiary? Incendiary bombs that us did in Tokyo? Actually. Well, actually, you could think of that, but it really wasn't referring to that. Although, you know, you're right about the incendiary bombings being insanely destructive, but there was another kind of a fire that you two was singing about that came out of World War II. What do you think? Come on. Was it economic progress? No, it wasn't. Think about this. It's a cataclysmic event and something brand new in world history. Then the atomic bomb. The atomic bomb. Exactly. The atomic bomb. All right. Anyway, we'll talk a little bit about the atomic bomb at the end. Any questions or comments that I can help you with before we get to that? Everybody knows what we're doing. You should be reading the Good War. We'll be talking about that on Monday. I have another thing also planned for Monday. Also, as you guys should know, I have office hours today at 1 to 2. Every Monday and Wednesday from 1 to 2. And the link is in the syllabus. And I also have. I will be doing some office hours on. On Monday because we won't take up the whole time. And then. And then also be looking forward to your online textbook exam that I'm going to make available over the weekend. Okay. Sometime today. Between today and Friday, probably. All right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Wait, professor, can you repeat the last part? Sorry, it cut out for me where I'm going to be putting up the textbook exam. It'll be taken. You'll be able to take it online. Okay. Okay. It'll be okay. You'll have it for over the weekend and it'll be due probably midnight on next Tuesday. Okay. And you're posting it this weekend, huh? Okay. Any other questions or comments? Okay. Well, we're going to talk about World War II today, and we can't really talk about World War II without talking about World War I, because a lot of. A lot of the events that were set in motion by the Treaty of Versailles and World War I are going to be contributing factors to World War II. So some. Some people argue that the time between World War I and World War II was just a pause in the same war. I, I disagree with that because, I mean, yeah, there is an aspect of that that is correct, but there's also the fact that World War II really wasn't one war. It was really three wars. It was a war between the Western Allies and Japan and a war between the Western Allies and Germany and a war between the Soviet Union and Germany. So really, three different wars happening at the same time. All right. Questions? Comments? So let's go now and think about, well, what are the events that lead up to this? And the first thing we have to say is that, if you will recall, American foreign policy always was isolationist, that the United States didn't get involved in world affairs. The only time that Americans would get involved in world affairs would be if its trading relationships were threatened. And it's pretty much what we saw with World War I. But at the end of the war, even though the Americans won, most people in all of the countries that had fought World War I believed it was a huge mistake. And the world kind of fell into a. An emotional depression after the war. There was a. It was an era when people just thought that the whole thing had been a massive waste. And Americans definitely felt that way. So Americans didn't want to continue their involvement in world affairs. They wanted to go back into isolationism. And they did, actually. And one of the things that will happen politically, we see, you know, that who. Roosevelt beat Hoover. And for a period of time between 191932 and 1938, the Congress was controlled by Democrats. We had the Congress and the presidency controlled by Democrats. But then after 19, I think it was actually 1936, the Republicans took control of the Congress, and they were very much against the idea of getting involved in another war. And so they passed laws that committed the United States to neutrality, but the United States was not going to get involved in any wars. And most people were actually on board with this. Most people thought that was a fine idea. Roosevelt, the President, actually wasn't on board with it because he saw basically two different problems happening. One was that American interests were being threatened in the Pacific. And the other was that democracy itself was being threatened in Europe. And Wilson. Excuse me, sorry. Roosevelt was very much a Wilsonian diplomat, meaning that he believed in missionary diplomacy, that the United States had a mission to extend and protect democracy. And so when we look then at what was going on in the Pacific, as I'll kind of describe to you here in a minute, we can see that America had economic interests that were being threatened in the Pacific, and also American had ideological interests that were being threatened in Europe. And Roosevelt believed that the United States would eventually have to get involved in a war. All right, well, we'll just leave it there, except to say that he started to make arrangements for that even while the Congress was passing laws for American neutrality. And you can. You can actually watch reading the book about how United States kind of comes out of that. That isolationist shell even before Pearl Harbor. But one thing that we need to understand, it's a link between the Japanese and the Germans, and that there was a. A treaty, an agreement between Germany, Japan and Italy called the Tripartite Pact. And the treaty was really aimed at the Soviet Union because both Germany and Japan saw the Soviet Union as a threat, and Italy was on board because they were allied with Germany. Right. But the consequence of that was that everybody knew that if the United States went to war with Japan or if Japan went to war with the United States, then Germany would also declare war on the United States. Okay, so there was. This is something that is out in the open. Everybody knows this is going to happen. All right. Questions? Comments? Okay. All right. So now in the Pacific, one of the things that had happened in the Pacific was that Japan was a rising industrial nation. Japan had forced industrialization and part of the 19th century, but Japan was an industrial power like the British industrial powers, meaning that it had a powerful industrial plant, but they didn't have access to resources, and they had to get those resources elsewhere. Japan acted like the European imperialists and sought control over different places in Asia where they would. They could gain their resources. But with that power, the rising industrial power, they were also becoming a rising military power. And really their only rival in the Pacific was the United States. The United States was by this time the world's greatest industrial power. And the United States had interest in the. In Asia, particularly in the Philippine Islands, because the United States owned the Philippine Islands. So the difference between Japan and the United States, industrially or economically, was that the United Japan did not have control of its resources, and the United States did, because the United States had all of its resources on the North American continent. And so that made Japan dependent on imperialism. And one of the things that they did then, as a result of the Great Depression, the military took control of the government and said, well, we're going to supply our industry with resources by invading other countries. And so they invade Manchuria, they invade China, and then. And. And they set out on, of course, their plan, their stated plan was to conquer essentially all of Asia, right? To use it as their kind of empire for control, for contributing to their industrial plant. All right, so the Japanese are threatening in Asia, and Roosevelt as president realizes this is a threat to American interests in the Philippines. And so the tensions are going to, in the 1930s, will be rising between the United States and Japan. And eventually what will happen is that the United States will declare an embargo against Japan. And what that means is that Japan can't buy goods from the United States. But the problem is that the Japanese economy depends on goods from the United States, wood and steel in particular. And so if the United States stops selling those. Those resources to Japan, that means they have to get them somewhere else. And so what will happen then is that Japan will come up with a plan. They'll make a decision that. That they're going to accomplish one massive offensive throughout the Pacific and take over essentially all of the Pacific. And. And then they're going to declare that to the world as a FEC accompli. Right? Keeping in mind now that at this point there, the Western powers have demonstrated that they're not really willing to enforce the punitive aspects of the Treaty of Versailles. You guys follow me here. Questions? And so the Japanese think, well, you know, the Americans are in depression and the other countries aren't really willing to. To. To. To back up their threats that were made with. With the Treaty of Versailles. So, so we'll just do this and we'll present it to the world as a fetal complete. And. And that means a done deal. And that after that, you know, that we'll get away with it, essentially nobody will respond. You guys follow me here. But they were afraid that just, Just they didn't know, and they were afraid that the United States might respond. And they knew that the United States fleet was at Pearl harbor. And so they decided as part of their offensive that they would bomb Pearl harbor with the idea that if they bombed Pearl harbor and crippled the American Pacific Fleet, that that would discourage the Americans from getting involved. Okay, so as part of their. As part of their expansion in Asia, they took over all. Basically everything that's inside the green here. Right. And at the same time, they bombed Pearl harbor, and it did actually cripple the American fleet, but that didn't discourage the Americans. It enraged the Americans. Right. And so what the attack on Pearl harbor did was it changed American public opinion from isolationism and neutrality to being totally in favor of war against the Japanese. And at the same time, it brought Germany into the war against the United States. You guys follow what I'm saying here? Are you supposed to be sharing your screen? Am I not sharing the screen? No, sorry. I. I don't. I always do that. Why do I always do that? Yeah, I heard it in the green, and I was like, we supposed to be looking at something right now. Right. Okay. Well, hopefully you were learning a lot from just my talking. But actually, this is what we were looking at, the map here. So the Japanese have. Have expanded throughout this area that's inside the green here. You guys get what I'm saying? And that includes the Philippines. So the. The Japanese took over the Philippines, but the strategy, the gamble that they took was that if they bombed Pearl harbor and crippled the American fleet, that would keep the United States out of war. But in reality, it had exactly the opposite effect because Americans were enraged. And so Americans changed their attitude from one of neutrality to one in favor of a war against Japan. And at the same time, because of the Tripartite Pact, Germany declares war on the United States. Okay, you guys are with me. So now the United States is involved in two wars, one in Europe and one in the Pacific. All right, questions? Comments? With a Pearl harbor, like, how big was the. Like, how many ships were there? How much damage to the actual Navy did they intend to do? Was it, like, more morale or was it more trying to do damage to the Navy? No, actually, most. Most of the American fleet was there, and most of the American fleet was destroyed. And so the United States really did take a big hit at Pearl harbor in terms of its military capability in the Pacific. The. The counterbalance to that was that the United States had a very efficient industrial plant that could be quickly fit to produce war material. So the United States could. Even though they had. There were a number of ships that were destroyed, Americans could actually produce ships faster than the Japanese could destroy them. Right. There was a period of time when the United States was actually launching a destroyer every day. Right. Do you follow what I'm saying here? And so because of that, even though the fleet was crippled, the United States could overcome that. And one of the. One of the advantages that the United States had over Japan was that Their industrial plant wasn't. That wasn't big enough to do that. So when the United States destroyed Japanese ships, they couldn't replace them. It was. It was. It took too long for them to replace them. So the American fleet kept growing. Actually, the American war machine kept growing bigger and bigger and bigger over the course of the war as the Japanese. As the Japanese ability to make war kept decreasing. Okay, does that answer your question, Questions, comments about any of that? All right, so anyway, now the United States is at war, but let's talk about what was going on in Europe at the same time, okay? And one of the things that had happened, as you guys recall, was that the French and the British wanted to make the Treaty of Versailles a punitive treaty that would cripple Germany and make sure that Germany never threatened Britain and France again. Okay? And so one of the ways that they did that was by imposing reparations, as we talked about last week. But another way was that they actually divided Germany up. Germany had really only been unified since about 1870. And after world. After World War I, they broke it up again and they made really cut Germany in two and created the country of Poland, which really hadn't before that existed for a thousand years, right? But now they create this new country called Poland that divides Germany up, and then they create a whole bunch of new countries out of the old Austro Hungarian empire. So there's, you know, Czechoslovakia and Hungary, Romania, Serbia, all these different countries, right? And. And so what that did was it weakened Germany, all right? It weakened them particularly economically because the reparations are going to place a terrible strain on the German economy. And the way that the German economy or the German government essentially is going to respond to that is going to be by printing money. All right? And the problem, of course, with printing money is that the money eventually has no value because there's nothing backing it up. It's just a bunch of paper, right? So the people in Germany were really threatening. And this is in the middle of the Great Depression, so everybody's suffering from the Great Depression, but because the government that took over in Germany when the Kaiser abdicated was a republic, but many of the people in the government were actually Jewish. And so the sentiment arose in Germany that the Jews had sold out the country, that they had made a deal with the west and they'd surrendered even though Germany actually could have won the war. That was the thinking. It wasn't true, really. None of it was true. Right. But that was the thinking. And where that thinking came from was from a guy named Adolf Hitler, who wrote a book called Mein Kampf, which means My Struggle. Right. And in the book, what he said was that Germany had been sold out by the Jews, but that the German race was the master race of the world. His. His view was a racist view, which was that the top of the kind of race, racial food chain essentially was the German race. And then after that, there were gradations of. Of greatness, I guess you could say, until you get to the bottom. Right. And so what they thought was that Germans were actually the. The superior race. And then other Scandinavians were just underneath that. And then the British Anglo Saxons were underneath that. And then. And then if you get down, like the Americans were way down there because there were people in America from all over the place, right? And then when you got into other colored people, other ethnicities, they were even further down. Right. Eastern Europeans were down close to the bottom. They were called intermention, meaning under people, essentially. Right. And. And of course, you know, black people are. Or Asians are even further down. But then at the bottom, the greatest enemy was, guess who? The Jews. Right. Okay. So the idea that. What that Hitler had was that. That once the. Once he took power or his party, the Nazi party took power in Germany, that they would first unite all the German people into one country, which we call Greater Germany or the Third Reich. Right? And then once he had done that, then he would turn his attention to Eastern Europe. With the idea being that because Eastern Europe is occupied by Untermenschen, they don't really deserve to control that country. And so the Germans should take it over as a place where they can expand, called Lebensraum, or living space. Right? The idea that they can expand into the east and there's good agricultural country and there's oil, and. And so they can expand their Greater Germany, and anybody that's in their way should just be exterminated because they don't. They're. They're not. They're not worth anything. You guys follow? I'm saying. And he said all this right out loud in his book, okay? And people bought it. People in Germany who are suffering are all of a sudden saying, well, hey, wait a minute. Maybe he's right. Maybe these Jews are the real problem, right? Because it gives them somewhere to focus their anxiety. All right? Now the thing that we should add to this discussion is that Hitler didn't invade, invent anti Semitism. Anti Semitism had been a European cultural artifact going all the way back to the Roman Empire. Okay? But what Hitler did was he Weaponized it. He was able to organize this, this anti Semitic feeling in order to be able to gain his own political power. Right. And so one of the things that I would like to caution you guys about is that if you see a politician, and it doesn't have to be a foreign politician, but if you see any politician that starts to, what starts his rise to political power by defining some group as the enemy, whether it's Japanese or whether it's Chinese or whether it's Hispanics or Muslims, right. That person is weaponizing our own worst racist instincts. You guys follow what I'm saying? And the purpose of that is to, is to seize power. Because the idea behind that is that, well, if you give me the power, I'm the strong man and I can, I can solve this problem. All right, you guys get what I'm saying? So this is how authoritarianism starts. And this is exactly what happened in Germany. It also happened in, in Italy, but not on the same scale. All right, you guys are with me. Questions, comments about this. I heard that in the U.S. it was very hard to put propaganda towards because I know in Germany it was like very common knowledge that they were very anti Semitic, but most people didn't really find that, that surprising because most of the country generally had like an anti Semitic view. So when it came to the propaganda, they focused more on like against the Japanese and stuff like that rather than the Germans. Well, I mean, there was, there was actually an anti Semitic strain in the United States at the time, really, based on, more on, I think based more on the immigration from Eastern Europe that had happened like in the 1910s and 1920s that we read about in the Meacham book. Right. But the idea was that the, what was happening in the United States was that the Jews were also considered the enemy because they were foreigners. Okay. Plus they were Jewish. And, you know, the Jews killed Jesus. Right. That's, that's also not historically accurate. But anyway, the, that was the thinking that people have is very simplistic thinking. I, I, but that, you know, for example, there had been a ship of refugees from Germany, they were Jewish that tried to get into the United States and they weren't allowed in because they were Jewish. Right. You follow me here? Right? So, yeah, there is an anti Semitic strain in the United States, but Roosevelt is going to actually use that racism as his argument not only against Japan, but also against Germany. Okay. Didn't we have Japanese internment camps in America at the time? Yeah, we're not there yet, but we're going to get There. Right. Okay. Okay. All right, good. Any, any other questions? So, so you know, this, this, this racism that Hitler was able to, to weaponize doesn't just exist in Germany. It pretty much exists everywhere. And it exists here in the United States today. Right. I, I just read this morning about, and you guys probably know about this, and this is awful, but there's been a lot of attacks against Asians, Asian Americans in the United States because people, without thinking very much, are blaming Covid on Chinese. Right? They're saying what was the Chinese that caused it? So let's kill some Asian people. That's going to solve the problem, right? It doesn't solve the problem. In fact, all it does is create disunion. It creates destruction. It doesn't actually create unity. But unlike that in Germany, because most of the people were white Europeans, they were able to create this feeling of racial unity. Even though the Orion Nation that Hitler talked about, wrote about was a fiction, it didn't even exist, had never existed historically. His, his historical thinking was based on myth and fantasy, but nevertheless, people bought it because it sounded good to them. Right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Okay. Well, anyway, so, so what happens then is that eventually Hitler puts in place his plan. He does actually annex all of these different areas. The only thing that was left was Poland. And in September 1, 1939, he invaded Poland. He not personally, but the German army invaded Poland. And that was actually what eventually caused the British and the French to declare war. So they declared war in the fall of 1939, but the war didn't really start in earnest until the spring of 1940 when Hitler invaded France. Now why would they invade France? The reason why was the same as the reason why the Germans invaded France in World War I, which was that their idea was to knock France out of the war quickly so they could focus their efforts on Eastern Europe. Okay, you guys are following me here. So, so the plan was called the Schlieffen Plan. The Germans had tried it in World War I but had failed. They hadn't actually been able to reach Paris in World War II. They succeeded. Right. And so they knocked France out of the war right off the bat. And then they started to turn their efforts to the east. And it's really going to be in the east where they, they end up losing the war. But that's a different story altogether. All right. At any rate, the point is that that very quickly in 1940, all of Europe essentially is under the occupation or under the influence of the German Empire. And so the basically England Stands alone. England is the only country that's. That's really withstanding the German assault. And the biggest reason for that is because they couldn't send tanks across the English Channel. Okay, but so, so Churchill is. Churchill is the Prime Minister of, of England, and he's working very hard to try to get the United States involved in the war. Now, keep in mind that we talked about with World War I, the United States and, and England or the British were, Were enemies really. But after World War I, there was this kind of sense of fraternity between the United States and the British. And Churchill calls upon that. Right? So he's going to call upon Roosevelt to. To work for winning the war for the. For the. For the British, Right. Or basically for the West. And Roosevelt will buy it because he sees Hitler and Mussolini as a threat to democracy. Okay? And. And so. So there's going to be a series of talks off the coast of Newfoundland called the ABC talks. And the ABC talks. America, British, Canada, America, Britain, Canada. Essentially, at these talks, Roosevelt agreed, Roosevelt and Churchill agreed that if the United States ended up going to war with Japan, that the United States would go to war with Germany at the same time and that the Americans would fight the war in Europe before they fought the war in Asia. All right? They would focus on Europe first. And the reason why was because there was a threat to the Suez Canal, which was the link between the British and their empire in India. You guys, follow me here. So, so essentially what. What we see is already in place when Pearl harbor happens is this agreement that the United States is going to send troops to Europe. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Now, the thing about the. The attack on Pearl harbor is that, as I mentioned, the United States went essentially overnight from being isolationist and neutral to fully in full support of the war. And one of the things that we need to really try to imagine is that this period in American history is probably the only period in American history where almost everybody was unified, okay? Because it was. It was. There was a national sense that. That the whole country was threatened and that it was the patriotic duty of every American to do what they could to support this war. Okay? And so. So America, essentially, it was almost like this peer pressure that was created where if you weren't in favor of the war, you were an enemy. Right? You get what I'm saying? Okay? And. And here's what I want you to contrast that with. Okay? Contrast that with the fact that the United States has been at war in Asia since before you guys were born, okay? And Most of us don't even know about it. We have really little to know. We all know that there's troops in Afghanistan. We think there might be troops elsewhere in the Middle East. Right. And there are troops all over Africa that most of us don't even know about. Right. But the point of it all is, is that America has been fighting wars that we're not involved in. It's certainly not a total war. What's a total war? Isn't it like war between every nation of the world or no involvement of the people? Exactly. It's. It's the whole nation against the whole nation. Right. So in World War II, when, when we were talking about fighting the war, everybody was involved. Everybody was rationed, little kids were out picking up scrap metal and people were donating their bacon grease, Right. To help the war effort. You see what I'm saying? Everybody's involved world. Okay? And you can't imagine that today, right? I mean, we could look at what happened after 9 11, which many of you probably don't remember at all, right? But after 9 11, Americans were, were unified for about three days. And then America divided itself up again. Right? Americans divided themselves up again. Okay? So this, this idea of creating this unity based on. On a threat to the United States is something that's kind of unique to World War II. All right, you guys are with me. Questions, Comments about that? Okay, so now did we see the same level of like anti German sentiment during World War II as we did in World War I? Not as much. But one of the reasons why was because many of the people who were descended from Germans had changed their names. Remember that the only way you could actually tell somebody was German was by their name. So, so many of the people who were. Had been. Had been harassed during World War I had changed in their family names to something that was more Anglicized. And the result of that then was that it's much more difficult to identify who's German. You see what I'm saying? But it wasn't hard for them to identify who was Japanese, you see what I'm saying? Because there's a visible. There's a visible characteristics, right? Does that make sense? So then the answer is that there wasn't as much anti German sentiment because there wasn't as much of a visible presence of Germans in the United States or German people of German ancestry. Does that answer your question, Professor? Have you ever read the book on the hotel of Corner of Bitter and Sweet by Jamie Ford? No. It is based in World War II and like the Japanese internment camps. And a little Chinese boy, his dad makes him wear a button that says, I am Chinese. So it differentiates that he's not with the Japanese. He's, you know, he's with the white, you know, on their side. Yeah, you're, you're actually. I mean, we're kind of on to something there. Because the truth of the matter is, is that most Americans can't tell the difference between different ethnicities in Asia, right? Most Americans don't know the difference between Koreans and Chinese and Japanese. Right. They. It's just Asians. Right? You guys get what I'm saying? So that's a problem, I guess, on the part of Americans. That's not something that people in Asia have a problem with. They can recognize the difference. You follow me? Questions? All right, so let's go then to. This is basically what we were talking about, this idea of total war. And if you're going to have a total war in a democracy, who's going to manage the total war? What government? We talked about this in World War I. The federal government. The federal government, exactly. So we saw that the federal government took on powers that it never had before during World War I, which were mostly powers of persuasion. But In World War II, we saw the United States essentially take control of the economy and also to enforce its. Its policy using. I forgot what they call it now. Rationing. Rationing, okay? So, so now here's the thing that the United States government started to tell private industry, okay, we need you to build this, and we need you to build this much, okay? So the United States government tells, say, Ford or gm, okay, we need you to make a hundred thousand airplanes, right? And then the, the, the industry does do that. They hire people and they, they start producing these things, right? And they don't mind the fact that the government is actually telling them what to do, even though the government's supposed to be laissez faire, hands off, right? But the reason why they don't mind is because they weren't making anything. They were in depression, right? And not only that, the United States pays well, okay? So, so this was a, a great opportunity for them. And one of the things that you'll. You'll notice when you read that book, the stories in that book, the, the Good War, is that there were people. There was one person in particular who got a job in a, in a war industry factory who was just thrilled that the United States was at war because she was able to afford to buy a refrigerator, right, that she couldn't do that before. So she was happy there was a war. You guys get what I'm saying? Okay. Any rate, the United States takes control of the, of the, of the economy, and then they take control of American, of the American attitude, essentially. And they do that in the same way in World War II as they did in World War I. So let's take a look at a couple of these propaganda posters. Let's look at this one first. What do we see here? We see, like, Hitler coming after the U.S. yeah, right. Hitler and Tojo. They look like they're happy people. No, like angry. And to cause, like, fear and anxiety. Exactly. They're, they're, they're very. They're very threatening people. People. And what are they threatening? I mean, it's not like it's. It's not like it's nuanced in any way. What does it say? Our homes? You can see the picture of them on the bottom here. Our homes are in danger now. See, our homes down here? They're in danger now. And so what do we need to do? Keep them firing. Right. And, and so what that does is it instills this sense of fear in the people of the United States, but at the same time, it also creates a sense of unity. Right. You follow what I'm saying? So this is almost. This is not. In some ways, it's not different from what Hitler did in Germany by declaring the Jews to be an enemy. Right. I'm not saying that the United States government was anti Semitic or racist. What I'm saying is that they use the same human propensity to create unity in America. Right. That unity is created. What defines us as Americans? Our enemies. Our enemies are what defines us. Right. You. You follow what I'm saying here? Okay. And let's take a look at this one then down here. Right? What do we see? What are these things? Those are snakes. Like saying that. German snakes. Yeah, Germany And Japan. Asia. Yeah, Japan. What about frog? I don't know either, but yeah. Anyway, I don't know what the frog is, but at any rate, the point here is that what are we doing? We're, we're. What are you supposed to do with snakes? Stomp them out. Stomp them out. You're not supposed to. You're not supposed to like snakes. You're not supposed to. To care about snakes. You're supposed to kill them. Right? Okay. So why do you think we're portraying the Germans and the Japanese as snakes? Because we're not supposed to like them. Yeah. So we can kill them just like, just like we saw World War I with the Germans being gorillas, right? They were guerrillas in World War I, but now in World War II, they're snakes. So that's a kind of a miracle of biology. But at any rate, the point here is it's a. It's a matter of dehumanization, so that you can. You can instill hatred, right? You really not supposed to hate other people, but you can hate snakes. You know what I'm saying? Are you with me? Questions? Comments? Okay. So I mean, and that's the. That's really the. The bottom line in war, right? The bottom line in war is that you have to force people to believe that they hate other people. And the way that you do that is to make those other people not people. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Okay. All right. So now I'm not gonna. I'm not gonna talk about the actual battles and all that stuff, because all you got to do is turn on the History Channel, and it's like they're. They're bombing Germany right now. So. So, I mean, basically they. I think they call the History Channel the War Channel Channel. All right? But it's. If you want to learn about the battles and all that. Look at that. But what we're going to talk about is the effect really, that World War II had on American life, okay? And the one thing just to start off with is I will say that The World War II is probably one of the watershed moments in American history. What I mean by watershed means is that everything changes. Everything changes because of this war. The Civil War was the same, right? The Civil War basically created a completely different country than had existed before the Civil War. Right? And the same thing happens here. And the way that it happens is that the. The. Up until the time of the Civil War, there were undercurrents of conflict that were kind of hidden. They were kept under. Under the radar, essentially. One of them was civil rights, okay? That. That there was Jim Crow and there was discrimination all over the place, right? And everybody knew about it, but nobody talked about it. And. And so because of that really wasn't a problem, right? But what happens with World War II, as you guys saw in that movie Los Maneros, right, Is that when we call upon everybody to participate in the war, then everybody's going to demand a place at the table after the war, right? So. So World War II is going to then basically open the door to the civil rights movement. All right? One of the things that, for example, that happens is that that Black People were joining the military. Black people were going to work in war industries, but they were still discriminated against. And this guy, a. Philip Randolph, who was a. The head of the Porter Cars Union, organized a march on Washington. The March on Washington was supposed to be where black people marched on Washington to protest racism. But you'll recall that Roosevelt had framed the war against Germany and Japan as a war against racism, right? So how could you fight a war against racism when racism is your own besetting evil, Right? And so what happens is that in order to prevent the march, Roosevelt actually signs an order that ends racial discrimination in industry. Okay? Now it ends it legally. It doesn't actually end it in practice for quite some time, right? But at least this is a movement towards, towards civil rights. You guys follow what I'm saying? And it wouldn't have happened without World War II. Same thing with women's, right? We see women went to work in the factories in World War I. Women go to work in the factories in World War II. After World War I, women went right back to the kitchen, as you guys saw in that movie the 20s, right? But after World War II, they say, I'm not going back to the kitchen. I want to do whatever I want. I'm not going to be a second class citizen anymore. Right? And so we see the beginning then of the women's rights movement. Movement, all right? And then immigration becomes a huge problem because the United States, American men, like the men in the Grapes of Wrath, okay, who are working in the fields in California, are now going off to war or are going to work in war related industries. And so there's a need for people to work in the fields. And the United States makes agreement with foreign countries that their citizens can come to the United States and work. It's called the bracero program. And that they would work in the United States and make money in the United States. And in one of the, one of the, the once the war was over, they would go back, go back to Mexico or wherever they came from, right? But here's where this becomes a problem. It's because of the American Constitution. The American Constitution says that anybody born in the United States is a citizen. And so when these braceros come from Mexico to the United States and they have children, those children are citizens. And so after the war is over, the government saying, well, you guys are all here illegally, go back, Right? Well, they weren't here illegally when they came and they had kids. And those kids are not here illegally either because they're citizens. You follow What I'm saying. So this creates the whole issue of so called illegal immigration, right? They were illegal like they were legal when they came, but they were illegal when the United States didn't need them anymore. Right? You follow what I'm saying? All right. And then finally, we had already mentioned the Japanese internment camps, which was, was, was incredibly racist. The only thing that we can say about that is that race was a factor in it. But it wasn't the only factor, because if you'll recall, there was the same kind of a backlash against Germans during World War I. And that wasn't necessarily a racist backlash. So what we, what we couch in racism often isn't any more than just fear, Right? We saw it with the Irish, we saw it with Eastern Europeans, saw it with Jews and Catholics. Right? And now we see it with the Japanese. Okay? Or we see it with the Hispanics today or Muslims. Right? You guys get what I'm saying? Questions, comments about any of this? All right, so, so the point here then is that the, the war itself, even though the United States is going to come out of the war the most powerful and the most prosperous country on earth, it will lay itself open to conflict that will, by the end of the 1960s, lead to a, a real social disorder in the United States. Okay. And that's really what we're going to be talking about pretty much for the rest of the course. All right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Some people have argued that by 1968, the United States was one of the least politically stable countries in the world because there were political assassinations going on, riots in the streets. The United States was fighting an unpopular war. Right. And there was a lot of disaffection, disunity in the United States. All right? And it all comes out of this moment of triumph of the United States. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments about this. All right, so we'll talk briefly about the legacy. Well, as I mentioned already, United States emerges as the most powerful nation. But unlike after World War I, Americans see it as their duty to, to take on the role of defenders of democracy, partially because, because the Cold War is really, it comes, it comes to the forefront even before really the end of World War II. Okay, we'll talk more about that on a different day. But what the Cold War essentially was, was a conflict, an ideological conflict between the United States and the Soviet Union. And the ideology was based on economics because the Soviet Union was communist and was trying to, to spread Communism. And the United States was capitalist and was trying to Defend capitalism. Okay, you guys are with me. Okay. But it's couched in the terms of if you're an American, it's democracy versus communism or totalitarianism, and if you're a Russian, it's democracy because communism in its final form is theoretically democratic. Right? Okay. So it's a war between. It's a conflict between democracy and imperialism. They're going to say that American imperialism essentially is the last stage of capitalism. Right? Okay. So that's how it's caught. That's how it's framed rhetorically and ideologically. But the reality after World War II was that all of the European powers lost their empires, meaning that the British had to give up India, the French ended up having to give up Southeast Asia, and both of the countries had to give up their holdings in Africa. Right. And when these countries become independent, this is what's called decolonization. Right. When these countries become independent and the British and the French and the Germans and whoever was in control before leave, they leave behind countries that are devastated by colonialism. Their economies no longer exist, essentially. Right. Because their economy is framed basically for the support of the economy in the mother country. If the mother country is no longer there, then the economy collapses. Right. You guys follow what I'm saying? All right, so there's going to be. And this really ends up being a kind of a conflict between rich countries and poor countries, but it's going to get caught up in the Cold War, the ideological issue, because the Russians are going to be. Well, actually, both Russians and Americans are going to be trying to court these countries that are recently independent, and that's going to then lead to physical war. It happens in Asia in, say, Afghanistan, and it also happens in Southeast Asia, in Vietnam. Right. So American involvement in Vietnam. Americans went into Vietnam thinking that they were saving the world for democracy, but what they really were doing was supporting a colonial regime, which we'll talk again about on a different day. Right. And that support for the colonial regime meant that the people were not on board with what the Americans were doing. We went in there saying we were. We're here to save you. And they said, we don't want to be. You guys get what I'm saying? Not everybody, but a lot of them. And that's part of this that you're going to be reading coming up as another document set that you'll be reading. Okay. All right. Questions, Comments about any of that. And then finally, the last thing, as I mentioned with the song at the beginning, that it became possible after World War II. For the world to be destroyed. I mean, we look at World War I, it was a horrible war. Millions of people died, but the world went on. But with the introduction of nuclear weapons, it becomes possible to destroy the entire world. All the, all the people of the world. Right. You know, this idea. I know it's, it's kind of a theme nowadays of the post apocalyptic, meaning that the apocalypse happens and there's people that are still scrounging around that ain't going to happen. The only people that would survive a nuclear war, Cockroaches. Right. They're not people, obviously. Okay? But the idea here is that, is that this makes it possible now for the whole world to be destroyed. And people know this. Right? And so it's going to create what they call an age of anxiety. People are, are, are, are, are anxious about the fact that the world might end at any time if somebody just pushes the button. And this nuclear anxiety gets tied up with the Cold War because both the United States and the Soviet Union have nuclear weapons. Right. So I want you guys to think about when you're reading that book, the, the Good War, the last story that I, That I assigned to you guys was Street Corner Kids. And think about what this issue of nuclear anxiety has to do with those street corner kids. Okay? And we'll talk about that on Monday. All right? Any questions or comments about any of this? Live long and prosper. Thanks, Professor. All right, professor, on Monday. Hey, Professor, I got a question before I leave. Okay, so what we have due next week is the exam that you're posting and then the reading of the good war. And then the analysis of the good war. Huh. And then Wednesday we have midterm. Wednesday we have a. Like. But that one's in class. Yeah. Okay. And what did you. So what's the difference between the one you're posting for the weekend and the one we're taking on Wednesday? The one I'm posting on the weekend is only for the text book. Okay. And one for class is the questions on the study guide. The questions. Okay. The one for the class is the question of the study guide. Okay. And is the one over the weekend, though, open note. And the one on Wednesdays? Yeah. I mean, how come I'm not going to go to your. I'm not going to go to your house to see if. Make sure you have your book closed. Right? Yeah. Okay. So, I mean, I'm sorry, how. I was gonna ask, how are you gonna proctor the exam on Wednesday? Not sure yet. Okay. Okay. Okay. It's kind of a challenge for me to figure out how to give a good, honest written exam, but I'll figure something out. Okay, so is it gonna. Is it gonna be, in a sense, in a study, like. Like the study guide where you give us the questions and we write out the are? Right. The only thing is that there won't. All of the questions, theoretically, won't be on the exam. Right. Okay. When I used to give the exam in class. What? I would. I would give you 15 questions on the study guide, and I would give you 10 questions to choose from, and you'd have to write on five. Okay. All right. You see how that works? Yeah, yeah, I see. I see. Okay. All right. Thanks, Professor. Have a good one. All right, anybody else? You got my email, right, Cooper? Yes, I did. Thank you. Okay. Live long and prosper. You can't see my hand. I hate that. There you go. Live long. In and out. Yeah. All right, Have a good one, guys. Take care.