So how are we doing? All five of us, Right? There's, like, no one here, so I have a feeling it may be because of the document that I assigned for today. Carter, did you check your text, your chat stream? Okay, I see it. Here's. Here's what my experience is that I think there was some mix up on the. On the assignments. And so what I. I think that a lot of people have not read the documents. And I really want you guys to read the documents, all of them. And so what I'm going to do is I'm going to. I'm going to allow you guys to use this hour to read those documents. If you haven't, if you have, then just don't forget between now and Wednesday, and we'll do the discussion on Wednesday. Also notice that there's a video about Richard Nixon that's due that you're. You need to watch and do the assignment on for Wednesday as well. Right? Yeah, the fall. I thought it was due today. It was due today until I changed the syllabus. Although it is actually. I haven't changed the date. I have to change the date to Wednesday. But that we're gonna. That was actually for Wednesday. If you look at the document here. No, that's not it. This is it. You'll see I changed it so that the discussion was supposed to be today and in the fall was supposed to be on Wednesday. Actually, that's not due till next Monday. Okay. Yeah. So anyway, we're going to do the discussion on Wednesday. So you don't have to admit to me that if you didn't read it, if you didn't read it. But I really want you guys to read it. It's more important for you guys to read it than it is, you know, for you guys to try to fake your way through it. Right. Because it's information that's really good for you to know. Okay? So I'm going to give you that time now and we'll talk about it on Wednesday and I'll fix the. The dates on the due dates on everything on. On canvas. All right? And those documents, are you referring to the. The Vietnam War memoirs? Yeah, I'm referring to this document right here. Can you see the screen? You can't see the screen, can you? No, we can't. Well, because you're supposed to see it with espn. All right. But anyway, here we have document set Vietnam and Civil Rights. And this is actually the document right here. And what I want you to do is answer the questions on page four and don't worry about citations. Okay? So that's what you're going to be doing today. Any questions about that or questions or comments about anything? So I would like for everybody to leave now, except for Carter and Adriel. Hey, Professor. I have one quick question before I leave. Okay, so I. I came in the class a little late. Sorry about that. I got. I joined right when you were talking about the fall. So you said do if we already submitted the Vietnam and civil rights document. Said, do you want us to resubmit it? No. If you've already done it, I don't care. My guess is that most people didn't do it. And I want everybody to do it. Okay. Got it. Okay. Got it. Thank you. All right. Any. Any other questions? Okay, you guys take off, and I wanna. I wanna talk briefly with Adriel and Carter. Are you gonna want us to come back to the class afterwards? No. All right, then. I'll see you on Wednesday, Professor. All right. Live long and prosper. Bye. Thank you. Bye. Okay, now let me see your faces. There we go. All right now, you guys. Oh, he's laying in bed. No wonder he doesn't want me to see. So let me. Let me ask you guys about the group project. Because apparently you two are the only ones that are responding to the group, right? Liam? Liam, go read the dot. Go read the document. Follow the assignment and we'll talk about it on Wednesday. The class has been dismissed already. Liam, my apologies. I was having issues with my Internet. No worries. No worries, buddy. All right, so anyway, the question I have for you guys is would you like for me to have you continue in that project together, or do you want me to assign you to other groups? I was in. I was already assigned. No, no, no. I'm not talking about you, Liam. I'm talking about these other two guys. My apologies. Yeah. Okay. So what do you guys think? Which would you. I'll tell you what. I'll let you do this. Why don't you guys connect with each other between now and Wednesday. And let me know Wednesday morning if you would rather continue with this project knowing there's only two of you or if you would rather be assigned to another group. Okay? Okay. I think his name's Brennan. He's also in our group and he's like, sometimes in class. So we kind of have three people. I don't know. But we also just can't rely on him. Like, he only did, like, one question when we did, like, the test. So I. I don't know. All right, well, you Just let me know. Okay? Okay, I will. It's up to you guys. Okay, thank you. All right. Okay. Okay. I'll see you guys on Wednesday, then. Thank you, Bruiser. Professor, are. We're just in our breakout rooms right now? Is that what's happening? No, everybody is. I let everybody go because people didn't read the document, and I want everybody to read the document, so. Okay. Oh, so that. You're talking about the Vietnam one, right? Yeah. Go read the document. If you've already read it, don't worry about it. But if you haven't, go read it, and we'll talk on Wednesday. Okay, so I was reading. Okay, so I answered the section one on there, and then there's. I wasn't sure about. So do you want us to answer that? I think was nine questions on section two. Just the nine questions. Okay. So not the first time, Right? Exactly. Just. Just the second. Just all the questions on page four. Oops. Oh, yeah, I see. I didn't read that right. Okay. Is it due tonight, or did you extend the due date again? I'm. I'm gonna actually fix the date on it. Right. As soon as I get done with you guys, but. Okay, we do. We'll be talking about it Wednesday morning. Okay, I'll have it done then. Yeah, my bad. I answered the wrong questions, and I did the first. You're not alone. That's why I'm letting you guys give. But I do want you guys to read the documents. They're really important documents. No, it was a cool perspective. It was like, kind of like they were speaking to me, you know? Okay. All right. Thank you, Professor. Okay, Have a great day. You too. Professor? Yes? I. I had a question about the panel discussion, and I emailed you and messaged you on canvas. Oh, yeah. So, yeah, the way that it's going to be. Sorry about that. The way that it will be. The way we will determine the order that the groups go in is by roll of the dice. Okay. So there's another reason why if you. If you think that you're not going to be here on one of those days, then if there's nobody else to cover for you, then you probably want to be in a group where there's somebody that can cover for you. Yeah, that's what I was thinking when you said, like, the group thing, because that would be better, because I can just do all the work. But I. Yeah, I can't be here on May 12th. That's the only day. Yeah. So I can't guarantee when the groups are going to go because it's all going to be random. That's the only way to do it. Fair. In a fair way. Yeah, yeah, I get that. I was just wondering how it was going to go down. Yeah. So I'm gonna. How it's going to go down is I'm going to roll virtual dice. Yeah. All right. So anyway, I'll see you on Wednesday. Okay, thank you. All right. Have a good one. You, too, Professor. And for the Nixon that was due also today, are we also gonna discuss that next class or are we gonna mainly focus on the documents? That's not due until next Monday. Okay, cool. I've got the due dates all wrong on these things. I'm fixing them right now. That's not worried. Yeah. Because I actually. I already did the Nixon one. It was pretty interesting. Yeah, go ahead. I'm sorry. No, you guys, like. Yeah, I never really knew a lot. I didn't really know a lot about President Nixon. And to, like, watch the video was pretty interesting. Yeah. Well, I think that, you know, almost everybody nowadays, particularly in your generation, everybody knows about Watergate, but nobody knows very much about it. Right. And so it's good to kind of take a look at all the different players and all that, no? Yeah, it's definitely interesting. Yeah. Other than that, you have a good day. All right. I'll see you on Wednesday. See you Wednesday. It.