This is a song for Mayor Daly. Oh. Your brother's bound and gagged and they've chained him to a chair Won't you please come to Chicago? Just to sing In a land that's known as freedom how can such a thing be fair? Won't you please come to Chicago? For the help that we can bring? We can change the world Rearrange the world is the die to get better all out is just sit yourselves down there's nothing for you here Won't you please come to Chicago? Don't ask Jack to help you Cause he'll turn the other rear Won't you please come to Chicago? Or else join the other side we can change the world Rearrange the world is dying if you believe in justice Dying and if you believe in freedom Let a man live his own life die Use the regulation to need sin Overthrow at the door Somehow people must be free I hope the day comes soon Won't you please come to Chicago? Show your face from the bottom of the ocean to the mountains and the moon don't you please come to Chicago? No one else can take your. Change the world rearrange the world is dying if you believe in justice and if you believe in freedom Let him live his own life Door. Out the door. Do you guys like my song? Do you know why I played that song today? What are they talking about? Why do you want to go to Chicago, get shot? What. What period of time are we talking about right now? The 60s and the 70s. Yeah. 60s, right. Okay. What happened in Chicago in the 1960s? Anybody know? Do you guys not know? Was it. Oh, no. You should have read the Con. You should have read the book. Right? Democratic convention in Chicago, 1968. Was it the Democratic Convention? Yeah. We'll talk about it today. Right. How's everybody doing? It seems like we're missing a lot of people, and that's unfortunate, but all the important people are here, so thanks. All right, so I did want to show you guys. Let me just go ahead and. You can't see the screen right now, right? Let me go ahead and share the screen. Okay, now you can see my. My slide set. Right. And let me go ahead and go to our webpage. And I want you to notice that I put down some links here to help you guys with your panel discussions, particularly these. These bottom three have to do with trying to figure out what news sources are legitimate. And that problem today, you know, so the reason why it's important to you to have legitimate sources is because if you have a bogus source, then the accuracy of your report will be in question. Do you follow what I'm saying here? And that would be a bad thing because that'll affect your grade if you're like spouting misinformation. Right? Yes. So for our group, we have a five person group, but only three people are present so far. And I don't really see them in the meeting as well. Right. There's nobody here today. And actually there's another group that only has one person in it right now. Only one person showed up. So the thing I would suggest for you guys is, you know, get in touch with your group and see if they're going to be part of the, of the project. And if they're not, then we can rearrange the group so that everybody has some help because I don't want anybody to have to do it on their own. Of course. Right, okay. So I mean, if we have to go to less, less groups, that'll be all right too. I don't mind that. Right. So just let me know by Monday. Get in touch with your group and let me know by Monday. I'll, I'll do a poll and see how we're doing on Monday because I know there's one student and he's not here today, but he was all by himself on, on Monday. Right. So. Okay. All right. Okay. So at any rate, you've got these, these, these links to help you to find legitimate sources. Okay. Questions, comments about that. And there was also. Yes, I, I do have a question about the assignment that was due today. I'm not sure if, but if I could ask that whenever you're done with. No, you can ask me right now because I was going to tell you right now that I, this, I moved the. Let me see if I can find. Here's the syllabus. Right. I moved the discussion back one day. Right. So we're going to be doing the discussion on Monday. And, and then there was a document. One of the documents didn't make it into the document set when I edited it, but it's there now. Yeah. Okay, that's, that's what I. Because I tried. Yeah, I emailed you about that. I'm not sure if you got it. I couldn't find. I was glad that somebody actually had read the document. Yeah. And noticed that there was something missing. Right. But I fixed it this morning, so it's there now. You guys spent like 30 minutes trying to look for. I'm like, am I skipping over it or that's why you have until. You have until Monday to. To answer all those questions. All right. And you don't have to worry about citations on this one. Just answer the questions. All right, cool. It was a page four, like the nine questions, right? Yeah, I think there's nine questions. Yeah, yeah. Okay. The first one says we need to excite it. You want us to do that as well? Like the page number? No, no. You only have to do the citations on your. On your project, on your historical methods project about Hawaii and on your project, your group project. Okay. Everything else you don't need to do citations on. I've got to fix my. My documents. I'm changing things all the time, so. Okay, thank you. I can't even keep up with my own changes. All right. All right. So anyway, any questions or comments about anything having to do with anything, the groups or. Or anything coming up? Okay, let me go ahead and go back to the slide set and we're going to. You guys can see my slide set now, right? Yes. Yeah, I can see them. Okay. Yeah. All right, so let me put this in perspective. Let's think about in 1945, the end of World War II. The United States is the most powerful country on earth. The United States is the most prosperous country on Earth. The United States has fulfilled its sense of mission as being the defender of democracy in the world. And so you could say that 1945 presents us with a picture of the United States triumphant, right? But the United States has achieved pinnacle of success. Right. And now we're looking at a little bit over 20 years later, and the United States is the least politically stable country on earth, or at least it's been called that. And we have to wonder, well, how did that happen? How did we go from that moment of triumph to this moment of tragedy? And that's what we're going to kind of look at today. We've already talked about it to some extent, but we're going to really focus in on it today. All right. And look at the divisions in the United states in the 1960s. And going along with that, I want to mention that we live in a time when there's a lot of division in our national discourse. And you may or may not have heard people say, oh, this is just like the 60s. It's not okay. The 60s were much more divided than now, believe it or not, that in the 60s there were riots, there were race riots, and there were political riots, and there were bombings, and there were the burning down ROTC buildings and bombing radio stations. And really it was much more chaotic at this point in the 1960s than it is now. Although I will say that there was never an attack on the Capitol. There was a time when a bunch of hippies tried to levitate the Pentagon, but there was no attack on the. On the Capitol. Right. So anyway, so just kind of put that in perspective. Let's talk about some of the divisions. And we've already mention that the 60s are an era of anxiety, not just in the United States, but really everywhere in the world. There's a sense that the world could end at almost any time. And then also, we're coming into the aftermath of the Red Scare. We talked about McCarthy and his shenanigans and how that kind of breaks. It creates a division, but it also breaks some confidence in the American government system. Then we've also talked about the Civil Rights movement, which we ended our lecture on the civil rights movement by saying, well, we passed the 1965 Voting Rights Act. And so that was a triumph. And it was, in a way. But at the same time, it really opens a wound that has been present in the United States from the beginning. And so the relations between blacks and whites are actually going to get worse after the Civil Rights movement, then better, and then they'll change, you know, but we never really have healed that wound yet. And I think that's something, you guys, if you watch the news at all, you know that that's true. Right. So. So at any rate, the point is that there's a division there in the United States between white people and not white. And then we're going to talk about a new division. It's not really a new division, but it's the first time we're going to talk about it in terms of politics, liberal politics versus conservative politics. All right? And in the 1960s, when we're talking about liberal ticks, what we're talking about is the role of the federal government in the welfare of the people. And Roosevelt, as you guys will recall, who implemented the New Deal, believe that the federal government should be. Should take responsibility for providing for the welfare of the people. And you'll also recall that those political opponents of Roosevelt said that the federal government had no business in taking care of the welfare of the people, that that was the job of the states. All right, the question that we're going to have here is a question of the role of the federal government in the constitutional system. We're going to start off by saying that, well, let's just go back about two strategies of interpretation of the Constitution, and those two Strategies are called strict constructionism and loose constructionism. Okay, Strict. We go all the way back to Jefferson and Hamilton in the first administration, Washington's administration. Hamilton believed in loose constructionism, which meant that the, the Constitution could be changed in order to fulfill the functions that were defined by the Constitution for the federal government. Right, the federal. The function of the federal government is to promote the common welfare, ensure domestic tranquility, and all the things that it says in the preamble. And there's an article in a section in the Constitution that defines the power of the federal government to do whatever is necessary and proper to. To accomplish those ends. Yes, Cooper, Sorry to interrupt. I just wanted to ask, is there a second study guide for like, next exam? Yeah, it's on there. Oh, okay. I was just looking for it. I couldn't quite find it. It's there. I'll keep looking. I thought you were going to ask me some about constitutional interpretation here. Right, I'm sorry. Sorry. All right. Okay. So. So that's loose constructionism. And then Jefferson, on the other hand, believed in strict constructionism, which is that the federal government is limited to exactly what the Constitution says and nothing else. Right. So the original controversy between strict and loose constructionism was that Hamilton wanted to create a national bank, but the Constitution didn't say that the president could create a national bank or the government could create a national bank. So Jefferson said, well, it's not in the Constitution. You can't do it. Right. And what ends up happening is that that really defines the inter. The methods of interpretation for the Constitution all the way down till today. Right. So if we look at the, at the Supreme Court today, many of them on the court today, who are the conservatives? Keeping in mind, if you look at it, that Hamilton was conservative and Jefferson was liberal, but today's conservatives are. Call themselves strict constructionists. And what that means is that they, because they don't actually go by what exactly the Constitution says because we live in very different times than the, than the 18th century. Right. They say that they go by the original intent. What did the founders originally intend? Okay. And so they call themselves strict constructionists. And those people who, who believe still that the, the Constitution can be interpreted in a way that makes, that allows for a change in society now, are called loose constructionists. All right. But they're also called activists. Right. So at any rate, the divide between liberals and conservatives, really going back as far as the New Deal and maybe even earlier, is between those people who think the federal government should stay out of the business of the States and the people and those people who think that the federal government is responsible for the welfare of the people. All right, you guys get what I'm saying here? Questions? Comments? Okay, now one thing I want us to understand is that these two different views were held in good faith, right? It's not that one side is right and the other side is wrong. There's just different ways of, of interpreting it. Okay? And so when we say if we're conservatives and we say those liberals wanted to, you know, destroy American society, right. That, that wouldn't be correct. Right? Because they're acting in, on, in terms of their beliefs. Same thing with conservatives. We can't say that conservatives or a bunch of right wing nut jobs, they were really acting on what they truly believed. Right? So we just keep that right there. But it did create a divide. And this divide was something that was difficult or if not almost impossible to overcome. Right? So the way where we see that in the beginning of our period here is in what's called the Great Society. Right? So the Great Society, what happened was when Kennedy was elected, Kennedy was a liberal and he thought that he was a Roosevelt liberal, really. Right. So the idea that he thought was that the federal government should concern itself with the welfare of the people. All right? And then he was assassinated before he could actually implement any of his agenda. And Lyndon Johnson became president. Lyndon Johnson was wanted to run for president on his own terms. And so he introduced a series of programs called the Great Society Program. And the idea behind the Great Society was that in a country as wealthy as the United States, there should not be poverty, illiteracy, ill health. Right? Those things should be. The federal government should ensure that everybody in the United States makes a decent living. Everybody in the United States is educated, has a good education, and everybody in the United States has health care. All right? That's the idea, okay? The question is it really the role of the federal government to do those things for the people? And Johnson said, yes, it is. And so he actually had a number of these programs implemented like Medicaid, Medicare. And one of the, the interesting, one of the things that, that comes out of this Great Society is America is the government's role in public education, right? So here's, here's where we can see the problem. All right? So in, in the Constitution, Constitution doesn't say anything about public education, right? And so what the federal government says is we want everybody in the country to learn these things, okay? And the, so in order to accomplish that, how can they do that and still remain true to the Constitution. And the answer is that the federal government makes funds available for education, for public education. Right. And. And that if you. Those funds will be granted as long as you teach according to the standards that the federal government sets. You follow me here? So the federal government says, well, you don't have to take the money, but you don't have to teach these things. But if you don't, you can't get the money. You see what I'm saying? And so, of course, everybody wants the money, so they do that. Right? So we see the federal government then actually having a huge role in local education, in public education, even though there is no constitutional mechanism for it. All right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Okay. All right. So now another place where we see this divide is in what's going to be called judicial activism. Right? Remember, we just talked about strict and loose construction. Strict constructionists are. They claim to be in favor of original intent. Loose constructionists say that the Constitution can be interpreted to adapt to changing times. All right, now before I go on, let me just mention that the whole idea, and you can say, well, Professor Cox, you're just a stupid history PhD. You don't know anything about constitutional law. And that may be true. I don't know that much about constant law. But I can tell you this. At the end of the Constitutional Convention, nobody agreed on what they had created. There was a huge disagreement on different things, like what was the relationship between the states and the federal government and what was the nature of the union? Was it permanent or was it something you could secede from? And everybody went away from that convention with a different idea. So it's not possible to define original intent because there's no original intent. The original intent was to leave some questions unanswered. All right, so if somebody says to you, oh, well, we have to do this because the original intent was X, right? That's the conjecture. It's not a fact. There's no place where it's written down, where the founders wrote this is with the original intent that we all agreed on. You guys follow what I'm saying here. All right, well, anyway, so that's the strict conservatives as strict constructionists. And then they activists are going to be the loose constructionists. And the activists are actually in control of the courts during the 1960s. So it's called an activist court or a judicial activism. Right. And let me give you some examples of some rulings that are going to be divisive. The one would be like, for example, with the Miranda versus Arizona or actually, yeah. Miranda versus Arizona was where a man in Arizona named Miranda was arrested and convicted. Based on his confession, he wasn't informed of his rights. Before he was questioned, he sued in federal court, and it went all the way through to the Supreme Court. Supreme Court ruled that his conviction was invalid even though he had confessed, because he wasn't informed of his rights. And that's why if you ever watch cop shows or if you hopefully have not been arrested, you hear. You'll hear them say you have a right to remain silent. Everything you say can and be will be used against you in a court of law, all that sort of thing. Right? Okay, so that, that's the. That's what comes out of the Supreme Court. And then there were a number of social issues. One social issue was there was a. There was a porn shop in Chicago that sued because the local government said they had to go out of it. They were. Tried to put them out of business, and they sued all the way through the Supreme Court. And the Supreme Court said that pornography. Pornography was free speech and protected by the First Amendment. Right? And then there was another case where. And somebody who was an atheist sued against the public schools leading prayer. When I was. When I was a kid, went to school, they had a prayer every morning that was said over the intercom in public schools. Right? But the Supreme Court ruled that public schools can't participate in sectarian religion. Right? Now, it doesn't say there can't be prayer in school. Okay? Everybody knows that there's. There's prayer in school every time there's tests. Right? But it says that the feed you in prayer, right? Or can't teach you how to pray. Right? And, and so, for example, if we're here at Mesa College, and Mesa College is a public institution, and I tried to get you guys to pray, that would be unconstitutional. But if I were USD, which is a con, which is a Catholic university, and I tried to get you guys to pray, that would be okay. You guys get what I'm saying? So the federal government does. The idea here is that the government cannot participate or favor any religion. That's what the Constitution says. All right? You follow what I'm saying? But in this case, what that means is that one of the. One of the hallmarks of public education that you start today with a prayer is. Is abolished. Right? Okay. And then. And then going beyond that, there's another case where a black man. Black man wanted to marry a white woman in Virginia. And that was against the law. So they Supreme. They. They sued all the way through to Supreme Court. Supreme Court ruled that states can't make laws against interracial marriage. Right. You guys are all following me here, right? So what we see happening and then keep on, keep in mind, on top of all this, Brown versus the Board of Education that does away with legal segregation, many conservatives are going to see the court as an enemy because they're going to say they're disrupting our traditional cultural beliefs and siding with pornographers and criminals and. And atheists. You guys follow what I'm saying? So. So this is going to be. It's going to create a real divisive attitude. Right? You guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Now, let me just mention, they call this legislating from the bench. Okay? It's called judicial activate. Activism is called legislating from the bench. And what that means is what we have to consider. What is the purpose of the Supreme Court? What is the purpose of the judicial branch? What you're supposed to do? It's like the court of law, I think, balance out the legislative and executive branch. Right, but how does it do that? Doesn't it uphold the Constitution? Yeah. And how does it do that? Interpreting it. Right. Interpret. Right. So they say. They, they. What you do, if you want to challenge the constitutionality of a law, you sue in federal court, and the federal court will say, yes, this is constitutional, though it isn't. Right. So their job is to interpret. Right. Judicial review is what it's called. All right? Judicial activism is when the court goes beyond interpreting and creates law. All right? And the problem with calling it judicial activism or being an activist court is that it's only judicial activism if you don't agree with it. Right? So if, if the court passes, makes a decision that you don't agree with, you'll say, well, they're just making stuff up. But if they, if they make a decision that you do agree with, you'll say, well, yeah, that's the right interpretation. You follow what I'm saying? So constitutional law is a lot messier than. Than people want to believe. It's not as cut and dried as you'd like to make it believe. As you'd like to believe. You follow what I'm saying? That makes sense to you guys? I mean, the Supreme Court has made many really stupid decisions, like Dred vs Scott, for example, where it said that no black person could actually be a citizen. Right. Or Plessy versus Ferguson, and it said separate but equal was fine. You follow what I'm saying? And that can be changed later. But there isn't any original intent that can be pointed to to say this is what's right and this is what's wrong. That's why the Supreme Court's so important. Okay? Questions? Comments? All right. Okay. So. So now going beyond that, we have the Vietnam War, okay? And in the Vietnam War, there's people that are against it, people for it. In the beginning, almost everybody was for it. All right? I. I think I mentioned this to you guys in 1965 when they started sending troops to Vietnam. Most Americans believe that this was almost like a holy cause, that the United States stands against communism, against the spread of communism. And for Americans, they believe that the real problem in Vietnam was communism, that we were fighting against communism. When you read the documents that you guys are reading, you realize that many people in Vietnam weren't really fighting in favor of communism. They were fighting against French colonialism. Right? But nevertheless, this is what Americans believe. So Americans are all in favor of going to war in Vietnam until the draft is implemented. Right. The problem is now that eventually they're going to have 500,000 troops in Vietnam. American troops. All right? That's enormous. That's way bigger than the number of troops that ever fought in, in our Middle Eastern activities. Right. I think the, the largest number of American troops in the Middle east was about 200,000 at the height of the. The Iraq war. Right. At any rate, the point here is that you can't. You can't field an army of half a million men without a draft. Right? And what that meant was that young people coming out of high school were faced with the possibility of being drafted into the army and sent to Vietnam. And it didn't take long for American troops in Vietnam to realize that we weren't really the good guys, that we were fighting a war that wasn't really supported by many of the people in Vietnam, okay? And that we weren't really waging war against communists. We were waging war against farmers. Right? And so the news comes back that this is not really what you're being told about the war. Is it really true? And then we start to see people come back from Vietnam in coffins. Casualties of war, right? And people, young people, are going to almost unmask, turn against the war, right? So there's a period of time, say, like in 1967, about the time of that video that I had you guys watch, right? When there's a real divide between those people who are against the war and those people who are for it, right? The people that are for it are generally the older generation, The World War II generation, who are saying, look, we did our part, now it's your turn to do your part. And the younger generation saying, well, you did your part, but this isn't our war. We have nothing to do with this. We're not fighting the same battle that you guys fought. Right? You see what I'm saying? And that's going to then lead to an animosity between the younger generation and the older generation. Right? Now there's always some friction between the younger generation and the older generation because the younger generation wants to break away and assert its independence. But in this case, it becomes worse than that. It becomes that people become so divided that they see each other as enemies. Young people look at old people as people who are killers and enemies. And old people look at young people as people who are lazy and stupid and treasonous. Traitorous. You following what I'm saying here? Right? And so this, what they call the generation gap is going to be another huge divide. And you have to also remember that during this, this is actually when the baby boom generation is coming of age, right? Baby boom generation is coming of age. And there's a lot, many, many, many, many young people, right? So there was a period of time when there were actually more people younger than 15 in the United States than there were older than 15. And actually there was a, there was a proposal that they should change the voting age to 15. Right? But at any rate, beyond that, this is another big divide. All right? Now then, going beyond that, here's the problem with the draft, first of all, that there is one, right? Because that's something that everybody, it concerns really millions of people, right? But secondly, that the way out of the draft is to go to college, right? Because if you get into college, you can get a deferment, meaning that you can't be drafted while you're in college, right? So if you can get into college and you keep paying your tuition, you can, say, study English literature for three years and then decide to change your major to biology, right? And then you're at another three years onto your curriculum, right? And as long as you can keep paying your tuition, you can stay in college. You can stay in college for decades. And some people did, right? But then what that means is that the people who don't have to go, people who can't be drafted or aren't drafted, are the more well off people, the more affluent people, right? And that the poor people who can't afford to go to college are the ones who end up Going, being drafted. So what ends up happening then is that there's a division in terms of class, right? The affluent versus the poor. And it just so happens that the poor is proportionately more minority, right? So that means that the American presence in Vietnam was disproportionate to American society in terms of race. The minorities were represented at a much higher level in Vietnam than they were in the United States because of this issue of poverty. You, you guys follow what I'm saying here? Okay, so, so then that leads then to a racial divide as well. So you guys saw that in the video where the guys were saying, this isn't our war. Why are we fighting this war? Right? You, you follow me here? And you know, like I said, it was the people that from Detroit that ended up fighting the war because they couldn't afford to go to college. Right? You get what I'm saying? Questions, comments about this. Okay, so now let me just take a little bit of a detour here and talk about the Great Society and the Vietnam War. And this is going to set up one of the things to help you understand what Martin Luther King is saying in the document that I gave you in one of the 60s documents. The last thing is a speech by Martin Luther King. It's not the I have a Dream speech. It's, it's the name of the streets is a time to break silence, right? And what, what Martin Luther King going to argue and what I will suggest to you is that, well, first off, let's take a step back and think about the Great Society programs, right? Some of the Great Society programs are still in effect, Medicare, Medicaid, things like that. But we can, we can say that the Great Society didn't solve the problems that it set out to solve. It didn't do away with poverty, it didn't do away with illiteracy, it didn't do away with, you know, lack of health care. But the reason why Martin Luther King will argue is because they spend all the money on Vietnam, right? So he'll make it, he'll make an argument that the United States spends $50,000 to kill a Vietnamese kid and only $50 to educate an American kid. You see what I'm saying? And so the argument then from the point of view of those people who believe in the government's ability to create a welfare, to create well being, is going to be that we couldn't do it because we didn't have the money. But the argument from the conservative side is going to say, well, no, it's not because of that. It's because the federal government isn't capable of creating welfare. It's not supposed to create welfare. It's supposed to just do the things that the states can't do. You follow what I'm saying? And so there's still a divide over that issue today, right? That's why when we look at American politics, we look at the progressives and the mainstream and the right wing, there's all these different ideas, but the ideas that, that Johnson was putting forward were progressive ideas. And they couldn't actually accomplish the progressive plan because the United States was spending so much money on the Vietnam War. That's what they say. Okay, questions? Comments about any of this? All right, well, let's move on. 1968. We start off 1968 with a big story out of Vietnam. And that is what's called the Tet Offensive. Okay, The Tet offensive. First off, Tet, some of you probably, I'm sure, know that Tet is the lunar New Year. The, and it's, it's celebrated throughout Asia, right? Or at least East Asia. And it's kind of thought of as a holiday, right? And in some ways we would consider, or at least they considered Americans considered at the time, that Tet would be equal to like Easter or Christmas. Right? And so there was, they thought there was a kind of a tacit understanding that the Vietnamese would not be interested in fighting during Tet because that was their celebration, it was their holiday. Just like Americans wouldn't go out on offensive moves during Christmas or Easter. Right? You follow the same here. So that's the understanding. So Americans were really kind of caught off guard when on Tet, the North Vietnamese army and the Viet Cong launched an all out offensive throughout Vietnam. Right? And so all these little red burrs here is where you can see that there were attacks by the Vietnamese army and by the Viet Cong. All right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? The problem here is that up until now, the federal government, the President and the Secretary of Defense and the generals in, in, in, in Vietnam have been telling the American people the war is almost over. We're just about, we're just wrapping it up right now. We're all going to be done really soon here, right? Fighting's really gone down. There's almost no fighting at all, right? And the, the difference between what we know of as wars today and what, and the Vietnam War is that the Vietnam War was televised, as you guys saw in the video, right? That people could actually sit on the news and watch people being killed. In Vietnam and talking about the body count and all that stuff, right? So, so here we are, I'm an American, middle class American, sitting here, sitting down to dinner and looking at the, the evening news at 6pm and here there's this huge offensive going on throughout Vietnam, South Vietnam. And the government's told me that it's all over. And so there's this real sea change in American public opinion because Americans will say, you lied to us. You've been lying to us. This war is not even close to being all over. Right. And the thing that we need to kind of take away from this is that in terms of military action, the Tet offensive was a huge failure for the Vietnamese. Right? The North Vietnamese army was destroyed. Right. And the Viet Cong had lost their ability to do very much damage. Okay? So in terms of the military, it was a victory by the United States. But in terms of public opinion, public opinion turned steadfastly against the war in Vietnam. Right? You follow what I'm saying? So what happens then is that this is what creates what we call the credibility gap. Credibility gap is when people don't believe what the government says. Now, for us, that's kind of a dumb thing to say. Nobody believes what the government says. Right. But it's because of this. It's because before this, if the government said, they came out and said, you know, that the war is almost over, most people are going to believe it, you know. No, today if, if President Biden got on TV and said the sky is blue, there'd be a chiron underneath it saying, well, the sky's not really blue. It's really all these different colors. Right? And he's lying. And you know, that's just second nature. Does it doesn't have to be Biden. It could be anybody. It could be Trump. Trump, same thing, right? No matter what he says, he's lying. Right. That's the way we think about it. How do you know a politician is lying? His lips are moving. Right? So, so the point here is that this is where we can really see Americans start to lose real confidence in the federal government. You following here? Questions, comments about this? All right, okay. So now because of this, because of the bad news coming out of Vietnam, Johnson had reluctantly gotten the United States involved in Vietnam because of the Cold War and because he had to be. He had to be seen as anti communist, but his real interest was in domestic issues like the Great Society. He realizes now that Vietnam has destroyed his credibility, that he's not going to be able to run for reelection in 1968. And what happens is then that he starts to see other figures in the Democratic Party running against him in the primaries, right? So one of the things, I don't know if you've ever noticed this, but when the President is running for reelection, his party never primaries him. They never run against him in a primary, right? So in 2012, when. Let's go back even further, let's say 2004, when Bush ran for reelection, no other Republican challenged him. Right. And in 2012, when Obama ran for reelection, no other Democrat challenged him. Right. And in 2020, when Trump ran for reelection, no other Republicans challenged him. You guys follow me here, all right, so the idea of being challenged by your own party during your reelection is a real indication that you're in trouble, okay? And that's what Johnson is going to realize. And so Johnson then, at the end of March, will make an announcement that really shocks the people, and that's going to be that he's going to stop the bombing of North Vietnam, call for peace talks, and at the same time, he announces he will not run for reelection. Okay? Which blows the whole Democratic campaign wide open. All right, is everybody following me here? Questions, comments about this? Now, let me just. Let me just mention something here, that Johnson was serious about trying to start peace talks, all right? And the North Vietnamese had never been very interested in peace talks, but they agreed that they would talk. Okay? And Johnson convinced the President of South Vietnam that he also should join in these talks, and he agreed. Right? But what happens is that in the 1968 presidential election, the Republican candidate for president was Richard Nixon. And Richard Nixon believed that if Johnson was able to announce peace talks, that would throw the election to the Democrats. And so, John, so Nixon sent a representative to meet with the South Vietnamese president to convince him not to participate in the peace talks by saying that he would get a better deal once Nixon was elected and he pulled out, the Vietnamese president pulled out, and that was the end of the idea of the peace talks. Right? The problem is that what Nixon actually did was interfere in American foreign politics as a private citizen and prolong the war. So the idea here, or we don't know that for sure, but possibly prolong the war, right? Because instead of having peace talks in 1968, they're not going to have peace talks until 1973. Okay, you guys are with me. All right? Okay. So at any rate, the point here is just so that we know, we'll talk more about Nixon next week, but you will understand that, that those people who still, I think 25 of the people who still think that Nixon was railroaded really should know that this is not true. Nixon was a real crook. Right, okay. Questions? Comments about this? All right, okay. So. So then right after that, Martin Luther King is assassinated. You guys saw that in the movie. I think you also saw the assassination of Kennedy in the movie. Right. And these are going to lead then to, to riots in the streets. And it all kind of comes to a head in 1968 at the Democratic Convention. The Democratic Convention is like a picture of American society at this time because inside the convention center are the establishment Democrats like Johnson and Humphrey and people like that. And outside in the streets are all the hippies and anti war protesters and police brutality protesters and things like that. And one of the things that happens during this demonstration demonstrations are kind of drawing attention away from the Democratic Convention. And so the Mayor of Chicago, Richard Daly, decides to do away with the demonstrations by unleashing the police on the demonstrators. And it has been called a police riot, where actually the police really just went off on demonstrators, beating them with nightclubs and nightsticks, I guess what they call them, whatever. Right. But the point here is that it was all televised. Okay. Now there's people who will argue that no, that wasn't really a police riot, that they were justified and all that stuff. And I'm not going to argue one way or the other, but I will say this, that, that this was all televised. And so you think now I'm an American citizen and it's the end of middle of 1968. August. Right. It's August of 1968. And I'm looking at my country and there's all of this tension and division. There's race divisions, there's. There's class divisions, there's generational divisions, and, and there's these political differences and there's hawks versus doves and there's riots in the streets and there's political assassinations. Right. And you're going to say, well, what we really need now is law and order. And that's what Nixon promised. Nixon promised to be the law and order president. Right. He also promised that he had a secret plan to end the war in Vietnam, which we never, if he did, we never found out what it was. Right, right. But at any rate, because of that, he actually won, narrowly won the 1968 election. All right? So we're going to see a kind of a change in American experience after 1968. It's not going to get better. It's just going to or worse, it's just going to get different. Okay. And we'll talk more about that later. But. But for today, that's my story, and I'm sticking with it. Any questions? Comments? Actually, you said that deployed 500,000 troops to Vietnam, right? Right. How many troops did they deploy during the, like, World War I and World War II? I don't think there were that many. One. Sure. About World War II, you'd have to Google that. All right, thank you. Anybody? Anybody else? Okay, I can actually put you guys in your groups or you guys can take off. It's up to you guys. Live long and prosper. Hey, Professor? Yes? Isn't it true that for the draft, I'm not sure if it's still active now, but at least back then only men were allowed to be drafted. That's true, and it's still true today. You had to register, didn't you? No, I did, yeah. For, I think for the classes, I'm pretty sure. Right. I'm sorry, you have to be sign up for classes and you do, like, financial aid. You gotta, like. Well, you have to. Everything you have to. Everybody at age 18 is supposed to register for the draft. Yeah, I did. No. Yeah, yeah. All right. But last time when they were in Iraq and Bush started suggesting that we might call up the draft, it was a howling outcry against the idea. Right. So the idea that Americans are going to be. Are going to allow a draft unless there's some huge challenge in the United States, I don't think it will happen. Yeah, I remember memes back in the beginning of 2020 with the whole North Korea thing. Yeah. Memes are going around like, World War Three and, like, people avoiding the draft in different ways. But that was really funny. Yeah. Yeah. I don't think. I mean, just now we're leaving education and talking about my personal beliefs here. Right. But I think that if the United States is going to use its military forces, there should be a draft. Because if we don't all agree that we should be fighting, we shouldn't be fighting. You follow what I'm saying? And I can tell you that if we had a draft, the first time that some senator's kid got killed, that would be the end of the war. You know what I'm saying? The reason why it's so easy for us to fight a war is because it doesn't really involve most people. The only people that it involves is some kid from East LA who joins the army because that's the only way he can get out of the Ghetto, you know what I'm saying? And if he gets killed, well, that's not news. You see what I'm saying? And that's the problem. I think that's why Americans are so ambitious with their military activities around the world. You. I don't know, it feels kind of weird that, like, the draft is still, like, we still have that mechanism in place, just because it seems like. It almost seems unconstitutional just being, like, forcing someone to go to war. You know what I mean? Yeah, I know what you mean. But you have to think about almost every country has some kind of national service. Yeah. Okay. And it doesn't always have to be military service. Right. But there's always some kind of a national service. And so the fact that you have to sign up for the draft, that's a very weak expression of our. Our citizenship in the nation of the United States. Does that make sense? Yeah. I mean, they had the same problem in the Civil War, right? Civil War. A bunch of people from Ireland moved to the United States. They weren't even citizens, and they were drafted and sent to fight the Civil War. There were draft riots in New York and during the Civil War. Yeah. I just think it's really interesting. Yeah. Okay. You guys have a good weekend. I'll see you on Monday. Yep. Hey, Professor. Yes, sir? So have you read. You read the Things They Carried by Tim o'? Brien? I did. I thought it was one of the best books I ever read. I did, too. The. I remember I read in AP Literature, and the fact that it's one of the documents and, like, you like seeing one of those. Seeing that book again, it just makes me think it was like. It's. It's such a good story, and the fact that it's fiction, like, is another thing, but it's not really fiction. That's why I gave you those document, those videos of Timothy o'. Brien. Right. Talking. Talking on. That was the. The series. The Ken Burns series. Vietnam. The Vietnam War, I think is what it's called. But anyway, you can see that there was some reality behind what he had written in that story. Yeah. Yeah. It's a short video. I think it's like, five minutes. Oh, yeah, I saw it. It was. It was pretty good. Yeah. All right, thanks, Professor. What's it called again? Well, the things take. Oh, sorry. Go ahead. The. It's the. It's the video link that's on underneath the assignment. Vietnam. Yeah. Vietnam is Civil Liberties. The Things They Carried by Tim o'. Brien. Oh, got you. Okay. Yeah. All right. Anyway. All right. Have a good one, guys. I'll see you on Monday, I hope. Oh, Professor, I just wanted to pick your brain for a little bit. Oh, my brain is not pickable in there. You know, I'm talking about, like, the draft and stuff like that. Yeah. Like, some countries, like, I think it's like South Korea, where they. They make, like, men serve in the military for, like. Huh? Yeah. Do you think, like, America should do something like that? No, I think America should have a national service, but I don't think it should be a draft. I think it should be something like the. The ccc, you know, something from the New Deal where people, when they get out of high school, will have to go do a year or two of service. Right. For the United States. And the reason why I think that is because that would give people a sense of ownership. Right, Right. One of the things that you look around the country today and you see there's African Americans and there's Hispanic Americans and there's these Americans and bad Americans. Right. But when you look at people who have been in the military, like I have, though, we don't think of ourselves as that. We think of ourselves as Americans. Right. And the reason why was because we realized that we were part of something bigger when we were younger. Right. And that's why I think that it would be a great idea to take people. Kids out of their environment and put them in with a bunch of other people that are different from them and realize that we're all the same. Right. And we're all Americans. That make sense, right? Yeah. Because I come from, like, a Navy family, and we were talking about this the other day. It was like, oh, what if America did something like that? Oh, yeah. I think it's a great idea. Although, you know, it wouldn't really happen because people will say, you can't tell me what to do. You can't tell me. Right. It's like, you can't tell me to wear a mask. Right. That sort of thing, you know? But I mean, that's just the way Americans are. Stubborn and kind of stupid. But, I mean, we did some good things, too, so. Right, right. All right. Is that your question? Yeah. And then I'm also in the group three with Cooper and Morris. So just the three of us so far, Our other two groupmates haven't showed up yet. Like, Cooper said that in the beginning of class. And then I know you mentioned there was that one person that's alone. Right. They're like, more than welcome to join our group. Yeah. If their teammates don't show up. Yeah, I'm gonna. That's what I ended up having to do is put him in a different group. But hopefully I won't have to do that. Right, Right. And I got your message about the. The flight to Hawaii and all that stuff. Sorry about that. Well, the thing about it is, is that, you know, the class is in session on that day. Right. So you should. You saying that you had planned to fly away on that day, on a school day doesn't really work wash out as a great explanation for why you wouldn't be there. Because it's a school day. So if you make reservations on a school day, then you can't expect people to make special. What's the word I'm looking for? Special accommodations for you. Right. No, you're right. Yeah. I didn't buy my ticket. That's why it was given. But here's the thing, though. If you can work it out with your group that they can do the presentation without you, then that would be okay, right? As long as. As long as you do participate in the project, right? Yeah. It's mainly the presentation I was worried about because other than that. Yeah, me. Yeah. And that way, if you weren't here on that day, then it wouldn't be a big deal, but if you were here on that day, that would be a bonus. Right. I was also trying to think of other solutions just in case. Like, because you said in the. For the project. Right. It's like a 15 to 20 minute presentation. Right. And so far, me, Cooper and Morris, we're trying to think about how we should split it up. Would it be acceptable for like, like the speaking parts, like us to like, who speaks in this part? Would it be acceptable for me to like, do a video like, of my part so, like, they don't have to. You could do that or you also. You could have somebody else present your part. It doesn't matter. I don't care who presents. It could be all one person as far as as I'm concerned. Okay. Is as far as like workload, you want everybody to work on it, Right? Right. I want all the things done. And however you guys decide to do that, that's fine with me. Okay. Yeah. Right. That sounds pretty good. All right, so I'll see you on Monday then. See you in money. All right, you have a good one.