Recording and. There is mean things happening in this land There is mean things happening in this land oh, the rich man boasts and brags While the poor man goes in rags There is mean things happening in this land There is mean things happening in this land There is mean things happening in this land Too much cotton in our sacks so we have none on our backs There is mean things happening in this land There is mean things happening in this land There is mean things happening in this land Too much groceries on the shelves so we have none for ourselves There is mean things happening in this land There is mean things happening in this land There is mean things happening in this land O, the rich man boasts and brags While a poor man goes in rags There is mean things happening in this land did you guys like my song? I Can't Turn There? It is. Okay. Yes. Do you know why I played that song? Today we're going to be talking about the Depression. Exactly that. This was actually a song from the Depression. It wasn't sung by Pete speaker then it was sung by Woody Guthrie, but nevertheless, it was from that period of time. I want to take a look at the syllabus here for a second. I noticed that the syllabus doesn't match, like, the due dates. Let me just. Let me just check on that. Hold on. Let me go ahead and share the syllabus here and we'll talk about it. Okay, so here's where we are down here. We're here today, right? And so you guys should have watched the video. Do you guys watch the video? Yeah. Okay. Not. Not a bad video, actually. It's kind of interesting. It's about California. Right. And then. And then on Wednesday, we're going to talk about World War II. And then on Monday, we're going to do the discussion of the Good War. Now, the Good War is a book that you have to buy. And then there's a. A section of the. There's. You don't have to read the whole book. There's a section that I've set aside that you should. Different sections that you should read. And then we'll discuss that next Monday. And then on Wednesday we have our midterm. And then after that, Spring break. Okay, so that's where we're at. Now. Tell me about the dates. I think the Good War is lined up to be due on the 17th. So Wednesday. Okay, let me just take a look at that. Oh, you're absolutely right. I'm sure I changed this. This is the parts of the Good Four you want to read. Right. And then answer these questions. Are those specific pages or are those like page, like from page to finish the section, you know, that was. I'll tell you in just a second. Let me just first do this. Yeah, no worries. So we're going to Change it to 22nd and then we're just gonna leave it at that for right now. One thing I'm gonna, I'll let you guys know that we're going to be, I'm going to be changing how we turn our documents in and I'm working on that right now. And it should be done by today. So just keep your eyes open for that. But one of the things I'm going to do is I'm going to leave the, the submissions open and then after, if you turn it in late, then it will be, it will just be marked late. And I'm not sure exactly how I'm going to handle that yet. But at any rate, this idea of sending me submissions in email isn't working because I just get too much junk email. I just, I logged in this morning, I had 130 email messages and it's just unmanageable. Right. So anyway, going to this list, okay, so I want you to read the introduction. I want you to read all of the introduction, right? And then on page 28, this is in the published book, right? You'll find the story of Peter Ota. And I want you to read that whole story, right? And then on page 59, they're only. Usually there are only a couple of pages, right? On page 59 there's a story of E.B. sledge. And you just read that story, right? And it's the same with all of these down here, right? So each one of these is a different story. And this is in the published book. This is where the story starts. So now if you look, for example, Mayor Tom Bradley starts on 149 and also Mickey Ruiz starts on 149. So that ought to tell us that, that they're not that long. Okay, you guys get what I'm saying? Did anybody start reading the book yet as anybody? I think that you'll find this book to be very interesting. Most students really like the book. It has a kind of an off putting name. But the, the real value of the book is that we're listening to this. The re the memories of people that lived through the time and they're just regular people. They're not like, you know, President Roosevelt and, and you know, Joseph Stalin and people like that. Just people like you and me that lived through the time. Right. So anyway, I think it's valuable. And again, we'll see. We'll talk about it on Monday. All right. Any, any questions about that or anything else I've said so far? Okay, So I fixed the, the dates. I guess I'll look at it again. But let's keep, just keep with the syllabus. And if the syllabus is off, then I would ask you to let me know so that I can fix that. So here. Any, any other questions or comments? Do you guys see the screen now? Okay. Where it says Depression and New Deal? All right, so that's what we're going to talk about today. We're going to talk about the Depression and the New Deal. And let me just go ahead and dive in. The first thing I want to do is I want us to think about the end of World War I. And what was the document that ended World War I? The Treaty of Versailles. Right, the Treaty of Versailles. Okay. And what happened to the Treaty of Versailles in the United States? We didn't. We never signed it. Right. We never ratified it, and for mostly political reasons. But what ends up happening then is that the United States isn't part of the settlement of the Treaty of Versailles. Okay. Now the, this I think I may have mentioned to you guys, hopefully I did, that the Treaty of Versailles was meant to be punitive against Germany. Both France and Britain wanted to make sure that Germany was never able to threaten them again. Right. And, and so one of the ways that they did that was they divided Germany up. Okay. And another way that they did it was by imposing crippling reparations payments, basically saying that because Germany was fully at fault for beginning the war, which turns out not to be true historically. But that's a different story. Right. Because Germany was fully at fault for beginning the war, that they should be responsible to pay for all of the damages that were done during the war. And so the Treaty of Versailles, when it was signed by all the different parties, basically said that you owe us however much money we spent and we're going to give you a bill later. And when they did give him the bill, it was enormous. And the whole purpose of it was to keep the German economy crippled so that. So that Germany couldn't threaten them again. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions, comments about that. All right. So now during the war, as you guys know, the United States didn't enter the war until late. Okay. And during the war, the United States supplied arms to Britain and France and they also made loans. So not The United States. But American banks made loans to Britain and France so that they could fight their war. Okay? Because think about this. It costs a lot of money to buy the things that you need for war. You need to buy tanks and airplanes and machine guns and all kinds of different things that you need to buy for war. And the reality was. Well, the theory was that once the all the countries had run out of money, they'd have to stop fighting. But the reality was that instead of stopping fighting, they kept going deeper and deeper in debt. And in this case, we see Britain and France borrowing more and more and more money from. From the United States. Okay, you guys are following me here. All right, so then at the end of the war. Well, first off, let's just talk about this idea of war being good for the economy. You guys have heard that before, right? Okay. The idea that war is good for the economy. Well, let's think about Britain and France spent the national treasury and went deep into debt buying war materials. What's the problem with that? What happens to war materials? They get used up. They get blown up more than likely. Right? And. And so what happens then is that the, the actual. The idea of buying war materials is kind of like you deciding to go down and buy an Escalade and drive it off the end of the pier. Right? You borrow how money it was to buy the Escalade, and you drive it off the end of the pier. You no longer have the Escalade, but what do you have? The debt. The debt, exactly. And so really, the war is good for the economy, is only true for people that manufacture things for the war. It's not true for a country. A country, when it goes to war, will destroy its own resources in order to fight that war. War is always bad for the economy. Just keep that in mind. War is always bad for the economy because if the country goes to war, then what happens is that they're spending the national resources. It's like throwing your money in a garbage can and setting it on fire. Right? That's exactly what's happening here. All right, so anyway, so Britain and France have accumulated this huge debt. Debt to the United States, right? And at the end of the war, because the United States actually was in the war, Britain and France say, well, hey, you were on our side, so you should, you should forgive our debts, right? But that would be kind of like saying, you know, well, I have a cousin that works at Capital One, and so you should forgive me my credit card debt, right? It's not going to happen. Okay? And so, so the American banks demand that Britain and France pay their debts. Okay? And then in. The problem here is, as I mentioned, all of the countries that were involved in World War I, except the United States, are broke, actually deep in debt. Okay? You know, all the money in the world really is in the United States. Okay? So, so when Britain and France need to pay their war loan payments to the United States, they don't have anything to pay it with. So they squeezed Germany for its reparations payments. Right? The idea being that essentially what happened was Britain and France, so you got to pay up, and Germany didn't have any money either. And so Britain and France threatened to invade Germany, and Germany responds. Then let's think about this. If you owe money and you don't have any money, what do you do? Find more. I'm sorry, you borrow more. Okay. And in this situation, where are you going to borrow the money from the people who have it. And who has all the money in the world? The U.S. united States. All right, so what happens then is the United States isn't owed reparations because it's not in the Treaty of Versailles. And the American Congress passes laws that says that Germany can borrow money from American corporations. So American corporations lend money to Germany. Germany takes that money and pays it in war payments to. To reparations to Britain and France, and then Britain and France then pay that to the United States in terms of war loan payments. So basically what's happening then is that American banks are making interest, are earning interest on money that was lent to Britain and also the money that's coming back to them from Germany. You guys follow what I'm saying? And there's this kind of cycle of money across the Atlantic, okay? Americans lending money to Germany, who pay the money to Britain and France, and then who then pay their money back to the United States. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Okay, well, this is all going to work as long as there's money in the United States. Okay? The problem is that the, The. A lot of the money in the United States isn't real money, okay? In. Instead, the. The money in the United States is. Is. Is what's called margin. Okay? It. I'm trying to think of how I can explain this because I usually draw a picture. Maybe I can draw. Maybe I can try to draw a picture. Here, let me give a shot. Okay? I don't know if I can make this work or not, but we'll give it a shot. Just give me a second here. Sorry. Crap. I. I hate to do this to you guys. Let me just see. See, I've still got 109 messages left. So what am I doing here? Okay, so login. Okay, so we go to this. Now you see a blank white screen, right? Okay. All right, so when we think about the stock market, we have to think about two different numbers, right? And the two numbers are the. Oh, crap, now this isn't working. How do I do this? Well, here, let me try it this way. This is going to suck. But the two different. That things. Oh, that's not going to work. Oh, man. Hold on a second. All right, so the two different numbers are the price. Professor? Yes. I can't see anything on my screen. Oh, do you see. Do you see a kind of a blue blob up there on a white screen? No, just a white. See a white screen. Now do you see the white screen? I see some writing now. Okay, now, so the two numbers that we're worried about are price. Did you see me just write price? Yes. Okay. And value. Okay, Price and value. Okay. And, and so what we're going to do is we're going to. We're going to make a little graph here. And we're going to make the graph. This is going to be. This is going to be money and this is going to be time. Right? So we'll look at. Let's say this is 1920. And say this is 1927. And say this is 1929. Okay? And so the two number. The numbers are, okay. That the price is the amount that you're willing to spend for stock. Okay. And what we'll notice is that over the 1920s, the prices on stocks went up and up and up and up and up and up. Right. The problem was that over the same period of time, the value didn't go up that much. Right? The value, say, went up that much. Right. And the reason for that is because the prices that people are willing to pay isn't always driven by the actual value of the stock. It could be driven by hype or, or, or by enthusiasm, things like that. Right. And then also keep in mind that, that as you guys read about in, or saw in the movie, the twenties that people were. There was a lot of borrowing going on on margin. What that meant was that if you put up 10%, you would get stock certificates for a hundred percent. So let's say you wanted to buy a hundred dollars worth of stock, you only put up 10 bucks, right? Okay. And, and the reason why that works is because as, as long as the price keeps Going up. Then the. Eventually what will happen is that the price will exceed what you paid, exceed the value of those stocks, and then everything after that's profit. So, so investing on margin works, but it only works as long as the. As long as the. As long as the prices keep going up. Okay? And that's what they call a bull market. All right? Bull market is where the prices keep going up. Okay? It's an. It's an enthusiastic market. All right, you guys follow me here. Okay? So. So what happens is people are investing all this money, but the problem is that 90% of the money isn't actually real. 90% of the money is imaginary money. That's why when they talk about a bubble, right, what they mean is that, is that the. What seems like a solid thing is actually full of air. And if you let the air out, then the bubble, then the balloon collapses or the bubble pops, right? Okay, and. And that's what we see here happening with the American economy, because what happens is that the price keeps going up, but the value doesn't go up. And at some point, people are going to say, hey, wait a minute. The price we're paying isn't anywhere near what this stock is worth. And so what happens in about 1927 is that the, the. The price will start to stabilize. And then in 1929, there's a market correction. And what a market correction is, is when the price moves to equal the value. So this is price and this is value, right? But then what happens to all this money that's in here? All that disappears, right? So, so when you hear about, you know, I don't know if you guys can remember this, but. But when the, the crisis happened in 2008, and people were saying, well, there was $20 billion lost on the stock market today, right? How could you lose $20 billion? Well, the answer is you can't if it's real. But this isn't real money. You follow what I'm saying here? Does that make sense to you guys? Questions? Comments? All right, so now let's go back then to this other. You see, my little balloon here that's called the great debt balloon, okay? And. And the reason why we call it the great debt balloon is because. Let me just end this first, okay? The reason. The reason why we call it the great debt balloon is because the whole thing, it's all this money that's going through this cycle is hot air. And the only thing that's keeping the balloon afloat is the bull market in the United States, okay? And Then what happens is in 1929, as I showed you on my little diagram, which I know was amateurish, but it hopefully made the point, right, and that is that the bull market ends. And what that does, essentially is it takes all the money out of this circulation and eventually what, what it means is that the balloon collapses, all right? The balloon crashes, all right? And that's what we call the stock market crash. Now, the one thing that we want to know, you maybe don't want to know, but I'm going to tell you anyway, and that is that, that the stock market crash didn't lead to instantly the Great Depression. It took several months for the, for the, for the economy to grind to a halt, okay? But what happens is that when the market collapses, there is no longer any money to lend. But more than that, if you think about, okay, if the major borrowers, if the major. I should say it this way, the major lenders are the banks, American banks. Where do the American banks get the money to lend? From the government? No, they invest money that people put into their bank. Exactly. From the depositors. Right. So depositors put money in the bank and then the bank pays them interest in order to be able to use their money. Right. So let's say that the bank. That you put $10 in the bank, and then the bank uses that $10 to buy $100 worth of stock on margin. Right. If the day that the bank borrows or uses that $10 to buy the stock, how much value does the bank actually have in the stock? 10%. That's a good guess, but it's not right, because the stock value is $100, but you only put in $10. So how much value do you really have? If you were to sell that stock, what would you get for it? You would owe money on it. Exactly. You would owe $90. You see what I'm saying? And that's what, that's what we mean by this imaginary money, right, that the bank says it's got 100 bucks, but it really doesn't. It's really got $90 in debt, okay? And, and then what happens is if all of a sudden you're called upon to make good on the money that you invested on margin, then it all disappears, Right? But now what happens to the money that the depositors had money put. If you put your $10 in the bank, what happens to that $10? Exactly. It's gone. The bank doesn't have enough money to cover the money that was deposited. And so what happens then as a result of this Americans aren't stupid. They see that the stock market has crashed and it's based on imaginary money. And so Americans run down to the bank to try to get their money out. It's called a run on the bank, believe it or not. They run down to the bank and they all get in line to take out all their money. Right? But what happens to, what happens to the guy that's behind the guy that gets the last of the money out of the bank? The technical term. Yeah, exactly. The technical term for it is he's screwed. He's lost everything. Okay? He's lost everything. All right? And so what happens then is that there's a crisis in banking in that people are losing their life savings. Right. But also that people no longer trust the bank. All right, you guys get me. And here's the problem with that. The problem with that is that the banking system is essential in a manufacturing economy, just like in farming, okay? Because what happens is if you're a manufacturer, what you do is you go to the bank and you borrow money and you use that money to buy, plant and hire workers and make a product and then you sell the product and then from the money that you get from selling the product, you pay back the bank and everything else is profitable. Right, you guys are with me. But what if there's no money in the bank? You can't borrow anything. Right? And because you can't borrow anything, you can't make anything. All right, so the problem here is, and you should remember this, you cannot have capitalism without capital. You cannot have capitalism without capital. And where do you get capital? You get it at the bank. And if the bank doesn't have any capital, then what happens to capitalism? It dies. It crashes. Right, okay, so, so that's what we see happening here. Then we see that, that this, this kind of weird banking system, this weird currency system that had, had followed World War I, eventually leads to the collapse of, of all the industrial economies in the world. Right. And then because it leads to the collapse of all the industrial economies in the world, what happens to the colonized economies? Yeah, because all the industrialized or the modernized countries economies collapse. What happens to the economies of the colonized countries? Oh, they go down the tank too, because of, because they're operating on dependent money from the colonizers. Exactly. There are monostaple economies that depend on the, the industrialized economies for their income. If there's no market for what they're making, then they're economy is going to collapse as well. So excuse me, that's why the, the depression is a worldwide depression. You guys get it. The reason. Okay, so now if we think about all of the, all of the major countries of the world, only one of them didn't undergo a depression at this time. Anybody want to guess what country it. Australia. No, it wasn't Australia. Australia is a capitalist economy, right? What country do you think doesn't have a capitalist economy now? Russia. Russia, exactly. Because they had the Russian revolution, which put a communist government in power. Right? Okay, now here, pay attention to this because it's important. And that is that because of that, Russia will say it will be. The Soviet Union, I guess I should say, is going to make a propaganda point out of saying, well, look, all these economies in the capitalist world collapsed, but our economy didn't collapse. All right? And so many people, particularly in the United States, are going to start. Well, actually, not just in the United States, but all over are going to say, hey, you know, maybe there's something to the socialism thing. Right? So, so remember that the movie that we watched, we have a plan. What was the plan? The plan was to take away private property and give it to the people. And what do you call that? Communism? Socialism. Exactly. Right. So, so, and, and again, remember what I said? Socialism only seems like a good idea when you don't have anything. Communism only seems like a good idea when you don't have anything. Okay? And people didn't have anything. So socialism seemed like it was a good idea. Right? Okay. And that's why we're going to see. Oh, but going back to then, talking about the Soviet Union, the truth of the matter was is that the Soviet economy, the Russian economy, had collapsed before that during the revolution, and it had never recovered. Right? So, so the main reason why the Russian economy didn't collapse is because it had already collapsed. It didn't have any place to collapse, too. You follow what I'm saying? Okay, so, so, but the point here is that they're going to use that as propaganda saying, look, our socialism works even though your capitalism has failed. All right, so, so this is where we are then. Okay, we go, we have all this word debts and reparations causing stable financial conditions. Collapse of the banking system. Why did the collapse of the banking system have such an impact on the capitalist economies? Because they had no capital. Right? And you can't have, you can't have capitalism without capital. Right. Keep that in mind. All right. Okay. So, so then we saw that, well, the industry's not making anything, so they're not employing everybody. So we have like a 30 unemployment in the United States, which is going to cause people to move, right? People are going to say, I can't do my work here. I, I can't make a living here. I'm going to go somewhere else. Maybe I should go to California. Right? And, and this is going to be part of the great migration of the 1920s, is going to be people moving from industrial centers in the east to California. Now, what's interesting about that is that because of the book, the Grapes of Wrath. Are you familiar with that book, anybody? The Grapes of Wrath was written by. Yeah, I mean, I haven't read it, but I, I know about it. Okay. Yeah, I can't remember his name. Grapes of Wrath. Steinbeck, John Steinbeck. Right. And what he's, what he suggests is that the people that came to, to California to work were from, from Oklahoma. Right? But most of the people that came to California were from the industrial areas because the Depression wasn't an agricultural failure, it was an industrial failure. You follow what I'm saying? But anyway, that's kind of how history gets skewed. At any rate, the point here is that we have unemployment, mass migration in the United States and then worldwide economic crisis because of dependency theory, which we talked about. Right? You guys are all with me. Questions, comments? You guys follow me here so far, right? Okay, let's move on. What is dependency? The. We talked about it when we talked about imperialism, so it should be your notes on that. Right? But dependency theory is where you divide the world up into two groups of countries, the modernized and the colonized. Right? And it's the dependent relation between them. Oh, here I actually look, I think I already have that. Well, it's not as good of a drawing as mine, but you can, you guys can see it, right? At any rate, the point here is we have this phrase, people search for solutions. And, and what I want us to do is to think about this as a, a word problem. We're going to take the word desperate and we're going to put it somewhere in this sentence. Okay? So let's say desperate people search for solutions, or people search desperately for solutions, or people search for desperate solutions. You guys follow me here. And all three of those things are right, because around the world when these economies collapsed, people, when you have no money and no prospect of getting any money, then you're willing to sacrifice things that were before important, like freedom, for example. Right? And so what we'll see is different countries coming up with these hardline, desperate solutions in order to, in order to appease the people or try to, to help people essentially. But it, it doesn't always end up working out that way. So we have what we call corporatism. You guys will know of them as fascists and Nazis and phalanges. All right? So fascists are Mussolini in Italy. The idea behind corporatism is that it's a single party state, that the one party rules the state, okay? And that means that all of the conflicts that happen in society happen within the party. Okay? We look at American politics, we'll say that different, different interest groups have different representatives and that they work it out in, in open politics at the ballot box, right? So there's the corporate interests and there's the farming interest and there's a, you know, whatever different kinds of interests that there are, right? They're all, it's all worked out in open politics. But in a single party state, it's all worked out inside the party. You guys follow? I'm saying. And so that's what we're going to see with Mussolini in Italy and also in, in Germany with Hitler and the Nazis and in Spain with Francisco Franco and the phalanges. All right, the problem with, actually what I'm going to show you, what I'm showing you here is that the same, there was the same solution that was tried in Spanish America and Latin America. So in Argentina we saw Peronismo, Juan Peron, and in, in Brazil, Novo and in Mexico, the Pre. All of these were single party states where all of the, all of the conflicts in society are worked out within the party. Okay? But they're all of, all of these different examples that I'm showing you here. The problem with them was that all but one of them became the faith of a single person, right? So, so Fascism was Mussolini, not Nazism was Hitler. Fism was Franco, Peronismo was Juan Peron. Estado Novo was Kulio Vargas. Right? And, and what happens then is that when the, the, the face of the movement moves or is removed, then the movement collapses, right? And that's what we saw when, when Mussolini was killed, Fascism ended when Hitler was killed, Nazism ended. Right? Fism died when Franco died. All right? Same with all of these, except for the Pre. The Pre was the Mexican revolutionary government and it lasted all the way up until 2000. And the reason why it lasted so long was because it wasn't associated with a single person. Whoever was president was, was almost like a dictator. But he was only a dictator for six years, and after that he couldn't be reelected. So there was a phrase in Mexican politics that says God dies every six years. Right, Right. Any, at any rate, the point here is that corporatism, the idea is that the single party is going to work out the economic problems, but it ends up not being able to work out the economic problems. All right. Fascism made the trains run on time in Italy, but it didn't end the, the, the, the depression. And same thing with the Nazis in, in, in Germany they were able to, to organize the people almost to 100% employment rate, but they weren't able to overcome that. They weren't able to end the depression. Okay. And same thing in all of these countries. And in Japan we see the rise of the military. What happens there is that the military goes by the theory that war is good for the economy. What's wrong with that theory? You stated that it was bad for the economy because you just waste resources. You like spend money on stuff and it just get, gets used. Yeah, you're destroying the national resources. Right. You're destroying the national treasury, essentially. Right. But Japan said, oh, we'll commit, we can overcome our depression. And the way that we're going to do it is by invading Korea. Right. Invading Manchuria, invading China. Right. And they started their, their, their course of conquest in Asia which will eventually to World War II. Okay. And it doesn't solve the, the depression. All right? And in Europe we saw in, in England, France and Scandinavia, the socialist governments. What I mean by that is that the government actually takes over private industry like the healthcare system and like the railroads and like the different manufacturing systems with the idea that the government can actually use their power to overcome the depression. And, and much of Europe today is still socialist, much more socialist than the United States is. But at the same time they weren't able to solve the, the, the economic problem. All right? And then, and in, in Soviet Union, as we've already talked about, they had communism, they were already communist, but they, and they didn't have to solve the problem, or I should say they couldn't solve the problem. But they didn't, they didn't experience the collapse of their economy like the rest of the countries did because their economy had already collapsed. Right, you guys are with me. So what I want you to notice is that there was a movement towards very desperate hardline solutions that people were willing to go for because of the fact that their, their interest, their, their well being, their actual livelihoods was threatened. You guys follow? I'm saying people were willing to give up their freedom in order to be able to get fed. Okay, you guys follow what I'm saying here. That doesn't happen in the United States. Now, before we move on, I, we'll talk about the New Deal here in a second. But before we move on, I want us, I want to ask you a question. And that is, if you notice, I said that every one of these solutions that was tried everywhere in the world didn't end the depression. Why didn't it? Because it still required money and resources to do all these things, I guess. Well, okay, but here's. Here, let me, let me state the question a different way. Fascism in Italy wasn't able to solve the world depression. Why? Because Italy's not the world. Exactly. A world depression needs a world solution. Right. And there was no way that, that the world could organize itself in such a way as to create a worldwide solution at that time. Okay. Probably isn't now either. But anyway. Questions, Comments about any of this. Okay, so let's talk about the New Deal then. All right, the first thing, let's just talk about a little bit about politics. Herbert Hoover was president at the beginning of the Great Depression. And he did, he made some effort to try to solve the problem. The problem was that he was a Republican and he believed that the Depression was just an economic downturn that was part of the kind of boom and bust cycle of capitalism. And that if you just let it go, that laissez faire, that the economy would come back. Right. What Hoover didn't realize and what the rest of his kind of his advisors, I guess you could say didn't realize was that the, the, the, the Great Depression was the death of capitalism. Capitalism essentially was dead. Okay. It was the only place at the end of the Great Depression that was still a capitalist country. Was. Does anybody want to guess? Wait, sorry, what was that? My bad. I was writing down. Okay, so the only country at the end of the Great Depression that still was a capitalist country was which one was was it us? Exactly. United. It was the United States. Okay. And we're going to talk about why that is here in a second. But the main thing is that Hoover decided to do nothing. So Hoover actually took the blame for all of the pain that was caused by the Great Depression. Right. Then what happens is that there's this guy who was governor of New York, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, who had been experimenting with different ideas to try to, to solve the economic problem and to relieve the suffering in the state of New York. And he runs for president, promising that he will give the American people a New Deal. Right. And this New Deal will be prosperity, that we're going to solve this problem together of the, of the Depression. And the, the main difference, I guess you could say, between the Republicans under Hoover and the Democrats under Roosevelt was that Roosevelt believed that you could use the power of the government for good. Republicans thought that the government should be left out of the economy, that the government shouldn't touch the economy. Laissez faire, leave it alone. Right? But what, what Roosevelt believed was that the government could play a part in, in, in shaping the economy in such a way that it wouldn't be as painful for the people. And this is actually a pretty radical idea, Right. If you think about when we looked at World War I and we saw that the United States government actually started to take control of the economy for the purposes of total war, Right. After the war was over, it kind of went back to business as usual. Okay? But now with the New Deal, we see the federal government taking on much more power than it's ever had before. And let's, let's talk about how this kind of plays out when, when Roosevelt was elected, when he was inaugurated, the first hundred days, he enacted most of the New Deal, right? Which is why whenever we get a new president, we always wonder, what are they going to do in the first hundred days? Right. People are following Biden's first hundred days right now, right. To see what kind of major changes he's planning on changing, probably because that's about the only time he's going to have any ability to do it. But at any rate, the point here is that the very first thing that Roosevelt did was close the banks. Right? He closed all the banks, declared a banking holiday, and he only allowed the banks to. With. This was actually with Congress, Right. He didn't do it on his own. Right. But, but the idea was that banks were closed and they were not allowed to reopen unless they met certain conditions under the American, the Emergency Banking Act. Okay? So, so now the purpose of this was to restore trust in the banks, right? People didn't trust the banks anymore because they had been reckless in their investments that had caused many of them to close. Right. And because of that, there wasn't any money in the, There wasn't any capital in the economy because there wasn't any money in the bank. Right? Okay. So to restore the, the people's confidence in the bank, what would be the purpose of that? To get people to put their money in it. Right. And if people put their money in the bank, then what would happen? Start circulating the economy and then more people go and spend and then the banks will have money for everybody. Okay, and what is, what is, what kind of economy are we talking about cash flow. Right, but are we talking about what kind of ism. Oh, capitalism. Capitalism, exactly. All right, okay, so, so then let's think about this for a second. The, the very first thing that Roosevelt does is sign an act that will make it, make it possible for people to have confidence in the banking system so that they can restore the capitalist economy. You guys follow, I'm saying here, okay, so what does that mean? The purpose of the New Deal was. What was the purpose of the New Deal? To pull everybody out of poverty. Right, Right. But also how are they going to do it? To restore what sort of, what we're doing right now, just like stimulating the like working class economy. Right, but here's the thing that we need to keep in mind. Right? Keep him. You're all right. Okay, but here's the thing that we need to keep in mind that the idea wasn't to make sure that the government made sure everybody was okay. The, the idea was to stimulate the economy so that it could get rolling again. Right? So the New Deal wasn't an idea to establish a new economic system in the United States. The New Deal was meant to restore the economic system that was already there. Right. The purpose of the New Deal was to restore capitalism. Right. You guys follow what I'm saying? Well, why is that important for us to say that? Well, the reason why is because if you listen to the radio today and you listen to any Republican, they're going to say, well, the New Deal was socialism. Right? But the exact purpose of the New Deal was to save capitalism. You follow what I'm saying here? So the idea then that the New Deal with socialism is just ridiculous, although many people still believe it. All right, Any rate, the Emergency Banking act is put in place to, and then they put in place other things to regulate the banks. For example, the fdic, which ensures the money that's, that's invested in the banker that's in the bank, which is still in place today. And the SEC Securities Exchange Commission, basically separating the banking system from the, from, from the stock system, essentially the stock market. Right. So that, so that the banks wouldn't be able to use their money in a reckless way to invest in stocks that were bad investments, essentially, which is what had happened. All right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? All right, now the next thing, the National Industrial Restructuring, National Industrial Restoration Act Relief Act, I think is what it was. The idea here is to support organized labor, which is unions. Okay. And I think I've mentioned to you guys before, and, and if you look at our history, you realize that this is true, is that unions are almost always looked at in America as socialism. Right. That, that because, because it's collective bargaining, essentially. There's this idea that it's socialism. And Americans don't like socialism because we're capitalists. Because we like property stuff. Exactly. We like stuff. We don't want to have to share it. Right. Okay. So the only time that labor is really supported in the United States is going to be for a brief period during World War I and then during the New Deal in World War II. And since World War II, the organized labor has essentially gone into great decline. So there's hardly any unions left today. Okay, but I think that you could make the argument that it was the unions that actually created, created the middle class. Right? And that without the unions, the middle class disappears. And then that's what we see happening today in American economy. That there's a huge income gap, a very tiny number of people controlling most of the money. And in, most of the people have nothing or very little. Right. And there really isn't a middle class anymore. Okay. Or the middle class is at least threatened. Okay. And it's because of support for labor. I think. Questions, Comments about this. Okay. Of course, you would find other people who would disagree with me heartily on that, just so you know. Okay. All right, so then, then this idea of stimulating spending, which is kind of like what we're doing now with our fourteen hundred dollar checks that we're supposed to get by tomorrow, right? That, that, that if you, if you put money into the economy, people will use the money to buy things, but in order to buy things, somebody has to make the things that you're buying. So what that means is that if there's money for people to buy things, then, then people will make things for people to buy and it will restore the manufacturing economy. You guys follow? I'm saying here, okay, so, so the, the, the, the metaphor that they always use for that is priming the pumpkin. Priming the pump. And I'm pretty sure most of you guys don't know what that means, right? But in the old days, back in my day, in the old days, right, you would have to go outside to get water out of the well and, and there would be a pump with a handle on it. You had to pump the pump like this. Right? But in order to get the water to come out, you had to put a little bit of water in the top of the pump to seal it. Right? And that's what they call priming the pump. Okay, so the idea here then is that you put a little bit of water in. In the top of the pump and you start pumping and then the water comes out. Right? Same thing here with the, with the economy. You put a little bit of money into the economy and that will cause the water to. The money to start flowing. You guys get what I'm saying? I have to, I have to say, let me probably to your disappointment, that this has never worked, okay? Stimulus has never worked. No country has ever been able to buy its way out of a depression. That doesn't mean that it won't now, but in the past, it has never worked. Okay? Just so we know that. That. Okay, but at any rate, what it does do is it delete. It actually relieves a lot of suffering because people that are working on these different projects. This is Civilian Works Administration, the Civilian Conservation Corps. That's the. That's not the National Rifle association, it's the National Recovery Agency. Yeah, that's not the National Rifle association, it's the National Recovery Agency. And the idea here is that everybody is in, that is enrolled in these plans, has a little bit of money, right? So they're able to survive. And that's one of the reasons why Roosevelt is looked upon, particularly people in my parents and grandparents generation, which is really old for you guys. But. But Roosevelt was looked upon so with. With such reverence because of the fact that he did alleviate a lot of suffering, okay? Even though, as we're going to see, he doesn't actually end the. The Depression, okay? And then one of the things that we see is the Federal Emergency Relief act. And the idea behind this basically is Congress said, Here's 500 bucks, come and get it, right? Keeping in mind that 500 bucks was a lot of money back then, right? Okay. So the Congress is basically saying, here's 500 bucks, come and get it. Guess what? People didn't want it, right? People would say, we don't want money that we don't have to work for. And so what ended up happening was that they started to. To make projects like, you know, going downtown and picking up garbage off the street and stuff like that so that people would get the money. But this is the very first time that we see the federal government giving money directly to the people. Okay? Before this, the federal government would give money to different agencies or to local governments, and that money would then be dispersed to the people in different ways. Right? But in this case, it's the federal government giving money directly to the people. So this would be the beginning of what we call the welfare state. The idea of the federal government actually supporting individual people. Okay, questions? Comments about this? All right? And then finally, Social Security. Social Security. The idea here is that people who are retired aren't. Because their families aren't working. They're. They're basically starving to death. They're dying, and there's nothing that. There's no. There is no what they call safety net, okay? And so the idea behind Social Security was that keeping in mind that from the very beginning of the Republic, every 10 years, when they did the census, the population had grown, okay? So the expectation was that the population would continue to grow, and that because of that, if you. If you tax the people who are working now and give that money to the people who are retired, there will always be more people working than now are retired, okay? And so it wouldn't be a huge burden on the people that are working, because that would be paying to support the people that are retired. You guys follow? I'm saying here. You guys get what I'm saying, right? Okay. So. So the problem. That's one of the problems with Social Security. Security is that's not the way they sold it. What they said was everybody's paying into Social Security rather than using that money right now to pay. To pay people that are retired right now that that money is going into your Social Security account. So I don't know if you guys have experienced this yet, but every year, you. I used to get a letter from Social Security saying you've paid this much in to Social Security, and so you can expect to get this much out at the end, right? So that gives the impression that there's. I've put money. I've got money in an account somewhere, right? But the reality is I don't really. That money doesn't really exist. The money is being paid to people that are already retired. Okay? You get what I'm saying here? Follow. Okay, so the problem then is that after World War II, there was a huge increase in population for about 10 years, which you guys call the baby boom. Okay, Boomer, Right? And then after that, the population started to decline, and the population has continued to decline since then. Okay? So what that really means is now that the baby boom generation is retiring and I'm right in the middle of it, and I retired, right? Okay? That means there's less people to pay, more people Less and less people to pay more and more people. You guys follow what I'm saying? And that's the problem with Social Security, is that it can't. It can't continue to. To pay off what you're promised because there's just not going to be enough. The only way that you could do it is to. Is to raise the taxes. So the. To solve the problem with Social Security, you either have to raise the Social Security tax or you have to tell people they're not going to get as much money, right? And. And neither one of them is a very politically stable solution because you're talking about old people, and old people get grumpy, right? You don't want to piss off the old people, all right? For one reason, old people vote, okay? And so if you tell the old people, well, you're not going to get as much money anymore, that you don't want that to happen, that's going to be the end of your career. You follow what I'm saying? And so there's this problem with Social Security that nobody's willing to solve, okay? It's just too much of a hot potato politically. You guys follow what I'm saying? Questions, comments about that? Back at the end of the last election cycle, Trump, he promised that when, if he got reelected, he would get rid of the payroll tax, which is Social Security. And everyone's like, yeah, no, no payroll tax. Yeah, Well, I can tell you this. I can tell you this, that half of my income comes from Social Security. So the only thing I would advise you guys is keep working. I think. I think the stats were that it could go like another year and a half paying people Social Security before it completely ran out. If he did that, that. Well, you can't actually. Well, maybe if he did that, but the way it's set up right now, it'll never run out of money, all right? Because money is always going to be paid into it. The quest. The question is how much? And if there's less people paying into it, then that means there's going to be less money available to pay to the people that are already retired, right? So either people are saying, well, there's going to be cuts to Social Security. What they mean by that is that people that retire maybe five years from now are going to get less money than I'm getting, right? But they're not going to take any of the money away from me. You follow what I'm saying? So I don't care about those people. I'm just kidding. You get Social Security until you die, or is it only until you run out of the money you put in? Well, you never. Well, it's until you die, actually, because people are living longer, too. So not only is there more people, less people paying into it, the older people are also living longer, so we're having to pay them. That's true. That's. That's actually true because at the time of the new deal, the 65 was thought to be really old. Most people weren't expected to live to 65. Right. Or much farther past it. Exactly. And. But now I, I got. I got buddies that are in their 70s, 80s. Well, they kind of solve that by giving you, like, they keep changing the retirement date, like how old you have to be. Right. They would change the retirement age. So my retirement age is 66 and a half. Right. Instead of 65. But it keeps going up for people that are younger than me. Questions, comments about that? Anyway, that's Social Security. It's a big issue, but it's one that hardly anybody wants to touch. Okay, last thing. Let's talk about the legacy of the New Deal. All right, first thing is, and it's important, it didn't solve the economic crisis, right. That when in 1939, when the United States went to war, the United States economy was still in the same condition it was in. In 1933 when Franklin Roosevelt took office. Okay, so that means that it didn't solve the economic crisis. Why couldn't the New Deal solve the economic crisis? Because you had stated that when you give out money, said that that hasn't worked in the past. Like, just giving free money, like, direct relief hasn't, like, not cured the, like, economic crisis, but it hasn't, like, completely gotten rid of it. Okay, that. Let's think about why didn't fascism solve the economic crisis? The world wasn't doing. It was a world crisis. Right. Essentially, capitalism was dead. The only country that was left in the world in 1939 that was really a capitalist economy was the United States. Okay, okay. So the next thing, income redistribution, socialism. Again, we've talked about this before. Yes, there is some income redistribution. We really already had some income redistribution because we would tax people. And there was a progressive tax that came out of the progressive era, which meant that people who made more, theoretically paid more, and people who made nothing paid nothing. But everybody gets the same benefit. Right. So that's the same thing as income redistribution, which is why a lot of people are against progressive income tax. But then also on top of that is the idea that we're paying the government to spend money on people who don't have anything. So it's from those who are those according to their ability to those according to their needs, which is communism. Right. Okay, so, so there's this argument then that that social. That the New Deal was actually socialism. The problem. There's two problems with that. One, first off is that it was expressly intended to save capitalism, and it did. Right. Okay. So that's kind of one argument against it being socialism. The other argument is that there's no more socialism involved in the New Deal than there is in pretty much any other government policy before or after. The problem here in the United States isn't a, a choice between socialism and no socialism. It's a choice between how much socialism. Right. Because none of us are going to say, well, we should stop having fire departments, we should stop having policemen. Right. And things like that. So all of those things are inherently socialist, meaning that some people pay more for it than other people do. Right. You guys get what I'm saying? And so the question then isn't should we have socialism? The question is how much socialism. Right. And that's what we always argue about. Okay. One of the things that comes out of the New Deal is that previously excluded groups like labor and farmers are going to now have a voice that they didn't have before. Right. But that's. I don't really see that as a complaint. Okay. And then. And finally increased power of the federal government. Okay. The. Many people look at the New Deal era as the era when the federal government became the, the, the kind of humongous entity that it is today. But let me just give you a number that will help you to put that in perspective. Right. At the beginning of World War II, there were 20,000 federal workers in Washington, D.C. at the end of World War II, there were 2 million federal workers in Washington, D. C. So now what event do you think contributed to the huge government that we have today? The war. Exactly. It was really. I mean, the federal government did take on more power than it ever had during the New Deal. Right. But it was actually World War II that created this behemoth of a government that we have today. Right. Because you had to have a huge government in order to be able to prosecute a world war, essentially. Right. Now let me ask you this question. The, the New Deal didn't solve the, didn't solve the economic problem. Why do you think that Americans. And this is where watching that video will probably help you. Why do you think that Americans didn't Reach for some more drastic solution. Why do you think they went for the New Deal rather than Upton Sinclair's socialism or some fascist or corporatist solution? Probably because they didn't have many options to choose from. Or they just couldn't like, I guess not like imagine or think of any other options, but none of them were being presented. So maybe it was just like that was all they had, I guess. Okay, let's think about in. In Europe, countries like Britain. Okay. Or let's think about Germany or maybe Italy during the Great Depression. And what did the people have to look forward to? Could they see an end to it? The people of Italy? Yeah. No. No, it was hopeless, right? It was hopeless for them. Did the Americans have that same sense of hopelessness? No. Why not? Because we were a capitalist society and we had a presidential candidate who was offering to make a New Deal, I guess. Okay, so what The. The main success of the New Deal was what? Hope. Hope, Exactly. And at hope did what? It saved capitalism. So. So now you don't have to like capitalism, but if you do like capitalism, you have to like the New Deal. You follow what I'm saying? Because without it, there wouldn't be any capitalism now. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? No, that makes sense. Okay, I'm done. Live long and prosper. I'll see you Wednesday. So just. Just to confirm that is that date is being changed to Monday for that assignment. Oh, yeah, I already changed it. I. Didn't you guys see me? I did it right online. Well, I. I wasn't following along, but good to know. Well, see, there you go. All right, have a good. Have a good week. I'll see you Wednesday. Professor, I just had a question real quick. Okay. For the Good War assignment, you said read the following selections in the book. The Good War. What book is that? Is it just the Good War by Studs Terkel? Studs Terkel, Yeah. Okay, I see it. All right, so you have to buy it. You have to buy that book or, you know, steal it or borrow it, whatever. Okay. It makes sense. Thank you. I just wanted to clarify. That's good. All right. Good. All right. Thank you, Professor. All right, we'll see you. Have a good week. Anybody else. Anybody else want to talk to me? Are you guys all taking a nap? All right, I'll see you guys. All right. Bob. Professor.