Give me an F. Give me an I. Give me an S. Give me an H. What's that spell? What's. Yeah, Come on, all of you. Big strong man Uncle Sam needs your help again he's got himself in a terrible jam Way down yonder in Vietnam so put down your books and pick up a gun I'm gonna have a whole lot of fun and it's one like a two uncle, three what are we fighting for? Don't ask me, I don't give a dam Next stop is Vietnam and it's 5, 6, 7 open up the pearly gates Ah, ain't no time to wonder why we're all gonna die well, come on, generals, let's move fast your big chances come at last Gotta go out, get those Reds the only good Commie is the one that's dead and you know that peace could only be won when the glorn of all the kingdom come and it's 1, 2, 3 what are we fighting for? Don't ask, I don't give a damn Next stop is Vietnam and it's 5, 6, 7 open up the pearly gate well, there ain't no time to wonder why we're all going to die wow. Come on, Wall street don't move slow My man swore a gold goal there's plenty good money to be made by supplying the army with tools of trade Just hope and pray that if they drop the bomb they drop it on the Viet CONG and it's 1, 2, 3, what are we fighting? Don't ask me, I don't give a damn Next stop is Vietnam and it's 5, 6, 7 open up the pearly gates well, ain't no time to wonder why we're all going to die well, come on, brothers throughout the land Pack your boys up to Vietnam Come on, folks, don't hesitate send them off for it's too late Be the first one on your block to have your boy come home in a box and it's 1, 2, 3 why don't we fight that far? Don't ask me, I don't give a damn Next stop is Vietnam and it's 5, 6, 7 open up the pearly gates well, ain't no time to wonder why we all going to die do you guys like my song? Have you heard that song before? Any of you? It was. Actually, I have not. It was good. Well, it was quite popular back in 1967. 68. So does anybody want to guess why I played that song today? Vietnam War. Yeah, it's the big issue that's going on at this period of time in American history. So to get started or any, Any questions about anything that I can help you with, Let me just show you. I don't know if you guys have noticed this, but if you go to the canvas page. Let me go ahead and share that here. Okay, so if you go down to here, you'll notice this is a panel discussion project that I introduced to you on Monday. I put some. Some other documents down here to help you. One about how to use this citation format, and then there's three different links here that will help you to determine the accuracy of the sources that you're using. And it's really very. It's not easy, actually. And even if you try very hard sometimes you'll get. You'll get pulled in or convinced of something that's true. That's not true. But, but at any rate, I'd like for you guys to. To look over the sources that you use for your. For your project because the validity of your sources is. Leads to the validity of your argument. Okay. Of your project. So, I mean, if you choose, you know, bogus sources for your. For your project, you're probably not going to get as great of a grade as you would if you choose more legitimate sources. Okay? Does that make sense to you guys? So anyway, there's some help there for you on that. Also, there was a question about this document and for some reason I had left out one of the readings, but it's in there now. And we're not going to actually discuss this until Monday, I think. I'm pretty sure I changed the syllabus so that we're going to do the discussion on Monday. So there's like three or four more pages that I added. Any questions or comments about any of that? I. I really appreciate that some people actually notice that. I'm kind of wondering why more people didn't. But anyway, so. So there's that. Any other questions or any questions at all that I can help you? Prof. The last I checked, at least last night the assignment connected to that was still due today before class, though. Okay, let me see about this song. Stuck on my head now. Okay, that's not the one. It isn't? No. This is the project. This. The Vietnam. Sorry, She's. I think it's in that same module, though. Or maybe. Yeah, it is. I. I just. It's this one, right? Yes. Okay. You guys get to all see the inner workings of. Actually, this goes all the way to. All right. Okay. Are you satisfied now? Hello? Yeah, I Also have a question on the assignment did you want us to do, to do it like we did the last time we had an assignment like this? Just answer the question. Yeah, just answer the questions. Don't put the citations. Okay. Because you're going to be doing citations on both your, your historical methods project and on your project document. So that. That's all the sites agents need to worry about. Just do the questions on these. I. So I turned it in yesterday because it was due originally due this morning. I understand that you changed it now, but is there any way I could go back into it and revise some questions? Oh, absolutely. Let me just make sure that. Yeah, see, I've got unlimited submissions. Okay, awesome. So anybody can go and you can, you can do it 150 times if you want. Cool. Thank you. Don't. Don't do it that way, though. All right, all right. Any other questions? Comments? All right, so let's go ahead and dive in. And what we're going to do today is talk about the United states during the 1960s. And I think that we are all kind of familiar with living in a time of. Can you see the screen now? Can you see the, the. Okay, so we're all familiar with living in a time of political upheaval and turmoil. And I've heard many people say, oh, yeah, well, this is like the 60s, but it's not. The 60s were actually much more divisive, believe it or not, to the point that in the 1960s there were riots. I mean, we've had riots too recently in the last few years, but there were riots and there were people who were actually bombing radio stations and burning down ROTC buildings and things like. So it's not quite as. It's not quite as violent now as it was then. Although we didn't have anybody actually attack the Capitol. They did actually try to levitate the Pentagon at one point. It didn't work. But at any rate, so we want to wonder the reason why. I think that the major theme here goes all the way back to World War II. And we think about, at the end Of World War II, the United States was the most powerful, the most prosperous economy and the most successful country on Earth. And here we are, barely 20 years later, a little over 20 years later. And the United States, some people have argued, is the least politically stable country on Earth. And we have to wonder, how did that happen? Right. And we've already talked about, you know, the effect of the Cold War on the psyche in the United States and everywhere else. And also you know, the red scare, those things we talked about last week. And a lot of that actually ends up shaking people's confidence in the federal government. Okay, so we're already holding. I mean, Americans have always been suspicious of big government, and I think rightfully so. But in this case, Americans are really distrustful of what's happening in government, and the government is doing the right thing. And then we also talked about. Sorry about that. We also talked about the civil rights movement. The civil rights movement, the way that we portrayed it last week ends with the Voting Rights act of 1965, which seems like a great triumph, but in fact, what it did was it left open a great wound in American society between black and white, which we are still dealing with today. But after the Voting Rights act of 1965, race relations got worse in the United States, not better. You guys watch that movie City on Fire? Did you see that? What did you guys think of that? Tell me about that. Well, I mean, I knew about the Detroit riots, but I didn't know how destructive they had been. And it was really kind of shocking to see all that destruction and how much tension there was between, you know, the races and all that going on at the same time as the, you know, the. The Detroit Tigers playing the ball game and all that stuff. So it was pretty. Pretty shocking to see that. Right? Did you guys enjoy the movie? Was it? I. I thought be something you would be interested in mostly because of baseball, because I don't know if you guys realize this, but baseball is the best game that's ever been devised. Right. So at any rate, that kind of demonstrates this racial divide between whites and blacks in the United States. Right. And this is going to be something, a theme that carries through the 60s and into the 70s, really, even today, to a certain extent. Okay? So we have that. And then the main issue that we're going to be looking at for the 1960s is another kind of a political divide, which is liberals versus conservatives. Okay? So in liberals, what we mean by Liberals in the 1960s is John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson and their ideas of the role of the federal government in the lives of people. Okay? And this argument really goes back to the Depression and maybe even earlier, but particularly to the Depression. Johnson and Kennedy are going to carry into the presidency with them the idea of Franklin Roosevelt, that the purpose of the federal government is to ensure the welfare of the people of the United States. All right? The difference between Roosevelt and Kennedy and Johnson is going to be that Roosevelt was addressing an economic crisis, was happening at that time. And Johnson is going to be trying to reshape society in such a way that the federal government is seen as the protection, protector of all the people or the. The provider, I guess you could say, for all the people. And many people, conservatives are going to see this as a violation of the original intent of the Constitution, because the original. From their point of view, the original intent of the Constitution is that the federal government is limited to doing only those things that the state governments can't do. So the federal government is limited by the Constitution to conducting foreign policy and regulating trade, regulating interstate commerce and those sorts of things. And then everything else, education, infrastructure, everything else is left up to the states, okay? And morality laws, everything. It's left up to the states. And that's the way conservatives think about it. Okay? So now we're. When we think about this divide, then it kind of comes to the forefront. After Kennedy's assassination and Johnson becomes President, Johnson wanted to be president. He wanted to run for president on his own. And Johnson thought that the best way to do that would be to carry out Kennedy's wishes for what would happen in the. In the federal government. Right. So he introduced a series of reforms called the Great Society Programs and the Great Society. The idea behind the Great Society programs is that the United States government, with all of its wealth and all of its power, should be able to create a society where there was no poverty, where there was no illiteracy, where there was no ill health. So the Great Society programs were designed to pull people out of poverty, put them to work, make sure that everybody had a good education, make sure that everybody had. Had, you know, good health care. The. And. And you can't really. You can't really deny that that was a. Those were lofty goals. Right? The problem, according to conservatives, was it was all unconstitutional because the purpose that all those things should be handled by the states, they shouldn't be handled by the federal government. That's the way that. That's the way conservatives saw it. Okay? So. So these programs, some of those programs we all kind of rely on in Medicare, Medicaid, I think that's about it from that period. Education grants to colleges and schools and things like that all come from the Great Society programs, right? And you can kind of see their point. On the one hand, you could say, okay, well, the federal government actually sets the agenda for education in. In many cases, in. In the United States, okay, we have a Department of Education, okay? But where in the government, where in the Constitution does it say the federal government should have anything to do with education. It doesn't. Right. So conservatives will say, well, the federal government is overreaching. How do they get away with it? Well, the way they get away with it is to say, well, you don't have to do this, but if you don't, you're not going to get any of our money. You follow what I'm saying here? And so basically then if you're an independent school district and you say, I don't want to teach what the federal government tells me to teach, that's fine, but then you're not going to get any money. And because the lure of the money is always so great, the federal government then is able to insert itself into education decision making. You guys follow what I'm saying here? Questions, comments about this? Okay, so, so now what that does is it creates a sense of, by many people in the United States, the conservatives, that the federal government is out of control. It's too big, it's out of control. And we have to realize the people that feel this aren't just a bunch of right wing nut jobs. This is, this is what's being challenged is their fundamental understanding of what it means to be an American. And, and you have to keep in mind that people were actually taught at this time what it means to be an American. They had civics classes in school where you would go and you would learn how the government works and things like that, which we don't have that much of anymore. At any rate. The point here is that there is this divide, okay? And the divide spills over from the issue, from the, from the, from the concept of the role of the federal government into the private lives, private morality of people. And this is because of something called judicial activism. The supreme court during the 1960s was what they call an activist cord. Okay? Judicial activism is the idea that. Well, first off, let me just ask you guys, what is the purpose of the federal court? What is the purpose of the judicial branch? To interpret the laws. To interpret them. Right. Okay, so when you say interpret, what does that mean? What would be a valid law? But like the right to bear arms? Right. Now that's constantly under. Okay, that's what they're arguing about. But what would make the law valid, unconstitutional or if it's constitutional or not? Yeah, if it's constitutional or not. Right. What an activist court does is it broadens the definition of what's constitutional by saying, well, it's constitutional even though it doesn't exactly say in the Constitution. This, we can understand it to mean this because of that. Right. And so there's going to be a disconnect then between people who see the Constitution as something that should be interpreted strictly and those who see the Constitution as something that can be interpreted more broadly. Right. This is a long time controversy in American constitutional law going all the way back to the beginning. Is the Constitution if they have what they call strict and loose constructionist. Right? A strict constructionist is somebody who says that the federal government should only be able to, to do what the Constitution says, and the Constitution only says what it says. And a loose constructionist will say, well, the Constitution grants for different interpretations because of the necessary and proper clause. And so therefore we can broaden the meaning of the Constitution based on current needs. Right. Those are the two different kind of constitutional strategies or our outlooks. And, and in today's court, for example, most of the, most of the justices are strict constructionists. The more conservative justices would be the strict constructionists and the more liberal justices would be the more the loose constructionists. Right. Just so we can kind of leave it there. Okay? So, but what happens is that during the 1960s, the court was more dominated by loose constructionists, which meant that they interpreted the Constitution more broadly. All right? And so in a couple of different cases, I can give you an example. They make decisions that look like they're actually making law. Right? They call it, they call it legislating from the bench. Okay. Rather than just interpreting the law, they're actually making law. That's what people say. And generally the Court will be accused of making law whenever they make a decision that goes against what you believe. Right? So if you think that the court should decide one way and they actually decide a different way, then you'll say, well, they're just, they're just legislating from the bench. Right? But if you agree with them and you say, well, that's a valid interpretation. You guys get what I'm saying? So the, when we say that a court is an activist court or that they're legislating from the bench, you have to understand that that's really point of view. Okay? At any rate the point here I can give you a couple of examples. One has to do with criminal rights, and that's the Miranda case, Miranda versus Arizona. Right. Where a man named Miranda was actually convicted of crime. He confessed to the crime, but because he wasn't told that he could have a lawyer before he confessed, they appealed it through to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court said they had to overturn the conviction because he wasn't told about his rights, which is what leads to what we call the Miranda. Right. So if you guys ever watch cop shows, or hopefully not, but if you've ever been arrested, you'll hear the cops always say, you have the right to be silent. You have to write to attorney, that sort of thing. Right? Okay, so that's going to be one example. Then there's other examples that go into social issues. One of them actually ends up being a First Amendment case that was a porn shop owner that was told he couldn't open a porn shop in a certain location. And he argued, he appealed that through the Supreme Court. And Supreme Court said that the First Amendment said he could have the shop. And then there were other ones, like laws that prevented interracial marriage between blacks and whites, where those cases were challenged all the way up through the courts. And the courts eventually said that. That there was no. That it was unconstitutional to prevent interracial marriage. And. And then there was another one where somebody who they used to. Actually, when I was in school, every morning, there would be a prayer. Somebody would lead a prayer over the intercom. Right? And there was somebody who sued saying that they didn't want to be led in a prayer. And that went all the way to the Supreme Court. Supreme Court said that the school can't lead people in prayer. Okay. It doesn't say you can't have prayer in school. Everybody knows there's prayer in school whenever test time comes along. Right. But it says that the school can't lead you in that prayer because the school is a government entity. Right. Okay. So, for example, if nobody, like, if I was a professor, I'm not going to do this, but if I was a professor and I tried to lead you guys in a prayer, that would be unconstitutional because Mesa College is a government entity. But if I was a professor at USD, which is a Catholic college, and I said I was going to lead you in a prayer, I could do it because it's not. It's not a government entity. You guys get what I'm saying? Questions, comments about that? All right. Okay. So at any rate, now let's take a look at this from the point of view of the liberals. We'll say, okay, well, the liberals say, you know, you have to be informed of your rights. The liberals say you have a right to say pretty much whatever you want. The. The liberals say you can marry whoever you want. And. And the liberals say you have to keep your private religion out of the school. State shouldn't be teaching religion or practicing religion. Okay? But from the Conservative point of view. What we're seeing is that the court is overturning convictions on a technicality. Right? Technicality, meaning that they didn't read him his rights. Okay? And the court is acting in favor of pornographers and atheists. And these actions are seen as a real challenge to the traditional way of what does it mean to be an American? You follow what I'm saying? So this is the divide. This is the divide between the liberals and the conservatives. And this is not a divide that can be bridged. There's no common ground here. You follow what I'm saying? This makes sense to you guys? All right, so. So that's how we end up with this, with this divided country between liberal and conservative. Okay, Questions, Comments about that? All right, so now let's talk about Vietnam. All right, Vietnam. At the beginning of the war in Vietnam, pretty much everybody in the United States was for it because Americans still thought about their role in the world as being the bastion of liberty, the protector of liberty, protector of democracy in the world. And the war in Vietnam had come to be defined by Americans as a war against communism. Now, in the documents that you guys are reading, you realize that from the point of view of people who lived in Vietnam, it really wasn't about communism, or for many of it wasn't about communism. It was about land reform and colonialism, right? But nevertheless, Americans believed it was about communism. And so Americans were very much in favor of intervening in Vietnam. But after a couple of years, people come to realize that what they're doing in Vietnam isn't defending democracy, that what they're doing in Vietnam is actually waging war against poor farmers, essentially, right? And so, and particularly because there's a draft, which means that if you're over 18, you're the. That you could be called up to go and fight in this war in Vietnam is very real. Many young people in the country are going to be very much against the war in Vietnam. Many young people in the country are going to believe that the war in Vietnam is an unjust war. United States shouldn't be in it, and I don't want to be involved in it. Right? And this was true. I mean, if you think of. You have to imagine, right, what if when you guys graduated from high school, which for many of you wasn't very long ago, right? The, the first. The possibility that. That you were faced with was that you would have to go. You would be drafted into the army and you would have to go to Afghanistan and serve in Afghanistan for a couple years. Before you could. Before you could go on with your life. You follow what I'm saying? You have to imagine how would you feel about that, right? And there's a range of feelings, obviously, as you guys are reading about in your documents. For the most part, young people were like, I don't want people. I don't want that decision made for me, particularly when I don't agree with the war at all. All right? And so what happens then is that there develops this known. What's known as the generation gap, right? Generation gap is between the young people against the war and the older people, The World War II generation, who are in favor of the war. And they're saying, look, we did our part during World War II to go and defend liberty in the world. Now it's your turn. And, and the kids are saying, no, we don't want to go over there. We're not. That's not our war. It doesn't. Nothing to do with us. It's not about the same thing. And, and so the, the generation looks at the younger generation as a bunch of almost like traders, right? They're weak, soft, binko, and you know, the hip, the long hair and hippies and. And all that stuff, you know, the kind of rebellion of youth. And keep in mind that this is the baby boom generation, right? So there's. At one point, there were actually more people in the country younger than 15 than there were older than 15, okay? And. And so this is a big divide. And. And the people start to look at the old people as enemies, and the old people start to look at the young people as enemies, right? There's. There's. There were places in the south, for example, where hippies who would travel around Volkswagen buses, right, would drive through a town somewhere in Mississippi or something like that, and it would be in the newspaper that there would. There was a busload of hippies that had gone through town last week, right? Like they were. Like they were a different species or something, you know what I'm saying? And so at any rate, this creates. This is another area where there's a division, division between young and old, okay? And then the way that the war in Vietnam actually was fought because of the draft, the way that the draft worked was that if you were enrolled in college, you wouldn't be drafted. You would get a defense, okay? And so was, as long as you get into college, then you would. You wouldn't have to worry about being drafted. You see what I'm saying? But you have to be in college, right? Once you got into college, then you would never have to worry about. You wouldn't have to be worried about being drafted. And if you, like, would stay in college for three years as a. As an English major, and then after three years, declare your major to be biology, then you have to basically start all over again. Right? You could stay in college for decades. Right? So. And many people did. Okay, so, so what that left was that the people who couldn't afford college were the ones who were called up at a greater rate. So. And those. The poorer people to be minorities. All right, so it's not. They were not all minorities. There were some. There were a lot of poor white people, too. Right? But what ended up happening was that the demographics of the people who fought in the war in Vietnam were. Didn't represent the demographics of the United States because the Democrat demographics in Vietnam were a majority of minorities and. And a minority of. Of whites. You guys get what I'm saying? So this becomes an issue of class and also an issue of race. Okay? So you guys could see in the. In the video where they were talking about the black people, it was people from Detroit that would end up going to Vietnam. Right? And people from the suburbs that would end up going to college. And so it becomes not just an issue of poor versus rich, but also an issue of black versus white or minority versus majority. You guys follow what I'm saying here? All right, so this is another division in American society. So when we get to the end of the 1960s, by the time we get to 1968, the United States is essentially tearing itself apart internally. And I think hopefully when you guys watch that video, you. You were able to. To kind of get a feeling for the divisions in the United States at the time. Okay, questions, Comments about any of this? All right, 1968. We start off the year in 1968 with what's known as the Tet offensive. Right? I know that I don't pronounce it correctly because I can't speak Vietnamese and nobody would teach me how to do it. But at any rate, what happens is on Tet, which is the Asian New Year, there was an understanding on the part of the Americans that they didn't. Weren't going to be fighting. It was kind of like they thought there was a tacit understanding with the other side that on their. On our days like Christmas and Easter, we're gonna. We're not gonna fight. We're gonna stand down. And then on your holidays, then you'll stand down so we won't have to worry about an attack, right. And this is why the North Vietnamese and the Viet Cong decided to attack throughout Vietnam. There was a concerted offensive against all these different. You can see all these little kind of burr things here, little explosion things. Those are all the places where the Vietnamese and the North Vietnamese army and the Viet Cong attacked American forces throughout Vietnam. Okay, what that's going to do is it's going to. Well, first off, let me just say it this way, that the Tet offensive by North Vietnamese was a complete failure. The North Vietnamese army was essentially destroyed by the Americans, and the Viet Cong were left pretty much to fight a guerrilla war throughout South Vietnam. So militarily, the Tet offensive was a victory for the United States. Okay? But what happened was that the war in Vietnam was actually televised, that people were actually in Vietnam taking pictures of the battles. And you could see that film on the evening news, right? And here, all of a sudden, we hear, we're in the United States and we're sitting around our dinner table at 6pm when the news comes on. And now there's a huge offensive going on. There's all through Vietnam. And the reason why this is a problem is because the President and the generals have been telling people all along that the war is almost over. We've basically won the war. We're just mopping it up right now, and then we're going to pull all the troops out. And so people are thinking, well, yeah, the war is almost over, and in here, all of a sudden, there's all this fighting going on. And what that does is it creates a backlash from the point of view of the public. The public are going to say, wait a minute, you've been telling us all along this is all over, and now we find out that it's not all over. You've been lying to us. I mean, I'm shocked. The United States government lying to us, right? But the thing that you have to keep is that this. The mentality of this time was that people trusted the government, right? People trusted the president. And if they said something was true, they would pretty much believe it, right? But here we have. We have all of a sudden that they've. Everything you've been saying is a lie. It's not true. And so even though this was a great military victory for the United States armed services, it was a huge defeat for America in Vietnam because Americans said, we don't want to be part of this anymore. We're done with this. Right? You guys get what. You get what I'm saying? Questions, comments about this so like I said, In 1965, when they sent troops to Vietnam, Americans were almost all for it. But by 1968, Americans are almost all against it. There's still some. There's still hawks and doves, Right. But the majority of the American people are against the war now. Okay, questions? Comments about this? All right. Okay. So now that leads to what's called the credibility gap. The credibility gap is you can't believe anything the government says. Okay? And for us, I mean, that's just kind of like second common knowledge, like saying the sky is blue. Right. But I can tell you right now that if President Biden went on TV and said the sky is blue, there would be Chirons flashing across the country saying, well, it's not really blue. It's really all these different colors. And he's lying. You know what I'm saying? And it doesn't matter who it is. It could be Biden or Trump or whoever, right? It's going to be the same thing. Nobody trusts the government, right? How can you tell a politician is lying? His lips are moving. Right? So at any rate, I mean, that's the way that's our attitude toward government. And we can really kind of trace it to this particular event, the Tet Offensive. All right. Well, anyway, so now President Johnson, who had actually reluctantly gotten the United States involved in Vietnam because of the Cold War, is now coming to realize that he can't win the war in Vietnam and that he's not going to be able to gain election. Re election, I guess he was elected in 64, but he's not going to be able to gain reelection. And so there are challenges within the Democratic Party. Now, one of the things that you'll notice is that the party that's in power that has a candidate who's running for re election, like for example, Obama in 2012 and Trump in 2020. The same party doesn't primary them. Right. The same party just lets. Okay, that guy's your guy. Right? You get what I'm saying? But they, there were a couple of liberals who actually Johnson, Eugene McCarthy and Robert Kennedy. And Johnson will realize he's not going to win the election. He's not going to even probably be the candidate. So he, at the end of March, he announces a halt in the bombing. This is the bombing, the Operation Thunder that I talked about last week. Right. He announces a halt in the bombing and calls for peace talks and announces that he will not run for president, which throws the Democratic ticket wide open. Right. You guys are with me. Questions, comments about this. Let me just mention something to you about the peace talks, all right? He called for peace talks during 1968, and he, he really encouraged the President of South Vietnam to participate in these peace talks with the North Vietnamese. And because it was an election year, the Republican candidate for president, who turns out to be Richard Nixon, is going to be afraid that if Johnson is able to make or to move toward peace in Vietnam, that would make him so popular that he would win the election. Nixon sends a representative to talk to the President of South Vietnam to convince him not to engage in the peace talks, and he doesn't. And so the war then will drag on for another seven years after this, right? This is documented. People know that this is true. So you would have to actually call that an act of treason, right, Because Nixon was actually acting in favor of our enemies at that point in time. And that's something that people didn't really know until about three or four years ago when, when the documents were finally unsealed. All right, Questions, comments about this? Okay, so. So in case anybody tells you any of the older crowd who still believes that Nixon was a great president, that tells you that Nixon was railroaded, just realize he was not railroaded. Okay, well, anyway, the point here is that right after that, then there's the assassination of Martin Luther King. And that's going to lead to a lot of riots in the streets. And then not too long after that, Kennedy's assassinated in Los Angeles, right? And then in 1968, they had the Democratic Convention in Chicago, which is really almost an image of America in 1968, because there's the establishment Democratic Party inside the convention center and all the hippies and anti war people out in the streets. And what will happen there is that the mayor of Chicago will unleash the police on the demonstrators and that will be seen on tv. So what ends up happening then is that if you're looking at the 1968, you're looking at TV, you're an American citizen looking at the TV in August of 1968. And what you see is the country that you're living in. You see there's a divide between blacks and whites, there's a divide between rich and poor, there's a divide between young and old, there's a divide between conservatives and liberals. And now we see the government forces attacking and brutalizing people in the streets. You're going to say, we need law and order, right? And Nixon comes along and he says, I'm going to be your law and order president, right? And not Only that I'm going to end the war in Vietnam. I've got a secret plan to end the war in Vietnam. My first secret plan is to keep it going so that I can end it. Right. But. But then he says, I got a secret plan to end the war in Vietnam, which we never did. Find out what that was. And then I'm also going to be your law and order president. And that looks pretty good. So Nixon actually wins his election in 1968. Barely, right? Barely. It wasn't a blowout or anything like that, but he did win. And that's going to lead then to really a whole different era in American politics. All right. Not that things are going to get better, but things are going to get different. Okay. And we'll talk some about that later. All right, so questions? Comments about any of this? Well, that's my story and I'm sticking with it. If you want me to, I can put you guys in your groups or you can just take off. It's up to you. I guess that's true. Thank you, Professor. All right. Have a good day. Thank you, Professor. All right, Have a good one. Did my group stay? Group checking in? Group two? Is anybody here in group two? I am. I was gonna leave. What did you wanna say? Should I just email the notes to that. To that thing, that little group thing we had? Yeah. If you want, you could make a slide like I did. That obviously won't be in that final presentation. You just put it there. All right. For sure. You can rearrange it. Yeah. All right, thanks. Catch y' all later. All right. Live long and prosper. You know. You know, the. The proper response to that is peace and long life. Peace and long life. Yeah. So if somebody says to you, live long and prosper, you're supposed to answer with, peace and long life. Peace and long life. All right, I like that. All right, professor, have a good one.