 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, yeah! Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Do you guys like my song? Does anybody want to guess why I played that song today? I liked it. I'm glad you liked it. I like it too. Does anybody want to guess why I picked that song for today? Does anybody want to guess why I picked that song for today? You guys could see the screen before, right? Here, let me share it again. See what we're going to be talking about today? Changing the world. We're going to change the world. Right? Any questions or comments? I'm going to go ahead and start with the song. I'm going to start with the song. I'm going to start with the song. I'm going to start with the song. I'm going to start with the song. I'm going to start with the song. Can you guess what we're going to be talking about today? Can you guess what we're going to be talking about today? Any questions? Any questions or comments? That I can help you with before we get started. Keep in mind that on Monday, we have a. A discussion about. The race documents that I gave you guys. The, the. Assignments on. Canvas. And. That's the only thing. Oh, only the questions on page three and four. Let me just go ahead and show you here. Yeah, because I tried to do it the other day and then I got confused because I was like, wait, what? Oh, you don't want to see my email. Tell me all the secret stuff about you guys. This one, right? So just go down here and answer questions one through seven, or actually one through 10. Do you see those? Yes. Yes. Yeah, I'm just going to my computer right now just so I can match it. I don't know exactly. Yeah, there's actually three questions on top of the 10 questions. Yeah. They give you a format for answering the question, but remember that I'm not asking you to provide citations. I just want you to answer the question. Okay. But it's just one through seven. You don't want to do eight, nine, and 10? No, you want to do all of them. Okay. I almost screwed up there. Okay. You're going to do all 10. Okay. Any other questions or comments? I appreciate the question. Thank you. Any other questions or comments about anything? Okay. So today we're going to talk about progressivism. So progressivism, it's really, it kind of goes along with what we talked about on Monday with the Gilded Age, because the Gilded Age essentially, well, let me just ask you guys to see if we're all on the same wavelength here. What was the reason why we called the age we talked about the Gilded Age? Why did we call it Gilded? Was it like the false sense of value? Well, there was a lot of value, but it was all in the hands of a very small number of people. It was that the layer of gold basically was covering up a lot of problems underneath. Problems underneath, social upheaval that was caused by the Industrial Revolution. So hopefully what we gained from looking at the Gilded Age was a sense of the kinds of problems that were introduced into American society by industrialization. And today what we're going to look at is how do, first of all, how do industrializing nations respond to those challenges? And then how does the United States respond? Okay. Because the American response is going to be slightly different from other countries. Okay. Questions, comments before we start? So remember then that all of this comes out of the Industrial Revolution. And some of the basic ideas from what we learned about in the Industrial Revolution were that a shift in the basis of wealth accompanied the Industrial Revolution, meaning that before the Industrial Revolution in the feudal system, land was the basis of wealth. Because there was only so much land, only so many people could be wealthy. But when we see a shift from industrialization, where you can make lots of money without a lot of land, then the basis of wealth shifts from wealth, shifts from land to capital. And then the result of that is that more people can be wealthy, which means an expansion of democracy. And I think I did mention that when I talked about this, that democracy is motivated by this increase in the amount of wealth that's available because of the Golden Rule. Does anybody remember what the Golden Rule was? So the people who have the gold have the money or have the power, right? Whoever has the gold makes the rules, essentially. So then we saw that there was, because of a wider distribution of wealth, there was a wider distribution of political power. And we saw that in the democratization in the United States, for example, between the aristocratic system of the British and the First Republic, where a number of people who we would consider to be among the bourgeoisie were able to seize control of the country, which was an expansion of democracy. And then it will continue to expand further and further as we go through American history. But along with that, what we noticed was that the political system ended up being ripe with corruption because of the fact that, because of this Golden Rule, essentially, that whoever has the money makes the rules. So you could buy politicians and you could buy votes and things like that, which then is kind of antithetical to the American system. And it also enforces a lower class. It enforces the exploitation of workers by not allowing them to improve themselves, right? We will also see the rise of the middle class. We're going to really see that today because the progressive movement was really a middle class movement. So we have to talk about, first off, where does the middle class come from? And why do they become the movers of this era of reform? Okay. And then other things rising out of the Industrial Revolution are business practices that are anti-consumer, like monopolies and trusts. And there were massive amounts of wealth inequality. And finally, the exploitation and oppression of the laboring classes. And I think that we really saw all of these things in the discussions that we had on Monday. And then also when we talked about the Industrial Revolution and you guys watched that movie, Los Moneros. So all these things are pointing to the fact that there's a lot of turmoil, a lot of problems, essentially, that needs to be addressed. And so the question then becomes, how do we address that problem? And the problem was not just an American problem. It was a problem that happened in every industrializing nation. And so what happened was there was a development of different approaches to solve the problems of industrialization. And we're going to look at three today. And those three are going to be communism, social Darwinism and positivism. All right. It's just a I'm going to give you kind of a big picture overview of each of these and talk about where they were, where they were popular and where they were not popular. OK, so so communism was kind of summarized in a book that was written by this guy here, Karl Marx, and also his friend, the factory owner, Frederick Ingalls. And the idea behind communism was essentially what I have presented to you in class, which was that the problems of industrialization arose out of a shift in labor distribution. And labor distribution and the means of production. So so essentially, the theory was that the owners, because of industrialization, production, the means of production comes more expensive, expensive, it's out of the reach of regular workers. And so only the wealthy can actually own the means of production. But because they own the means of production, they get the surplus from the labor and the people who actually work on the means of production only own their labor. And the result is that they get a subsistence wage, which is basically not really enough to live on. In fact, in some cases, it wasn't even a subsistence wage. Right. So so that part of that part of the Communist Manifesto, which is the first part of it, actually ends up being true because it's a it's a correct historical analysis of what happened in Western Europe. Okay, the rest of the Communist Manifesto is not true because what what they what was predicted was that communism would because communism, excuse me, because capitalism created this new class, the proletariat who were oppressed and unhappy that because the the nature of capitalism is that in order for a capitalist economy to be successful, it has to grow. Right. So so what that means is that we have to continue to produce more and more and more and more in order for capitalism to be healthy. And that means that we need more and more and more workers. Right. So so the theory then was that that the communism. Excuse me, that capitalism would continue to grow until the oppressed class was so big that they would spontaneously rise up and overthrow the owners and and take away their stuff. And then and then at that point, they would they would transition control of the manufacturing of the means of the manufacturing essentially to the workers, everybody owning everything in common. And and that would eventually lead to a workers paradise. Right. So so the idea here then about communism is that the the the workers are going to be so unhappy, eventually the workers will become so unhappy that they will violently overthrow the the the capitalist system and establish communism, which is in essence, no government. Right. Because the purpose of the purpose of government, according to communists, is to enforce the rights of the bourgeoisie. So if there's no bourgeoisie, then there's no rights to enforce and therefore people will just be happy ruling themselves. Okay. So so that's the theory behind it. Okay. It's as we'll see later. It there's good reasons why it doesn't really work. Okay. But for now, we can just say that what Marx predicted. Well, first off that the communist manifesto or communism itself was a response to the the excesses of the Industrial Revolution. And that the way that it responded was that its prediction was that the the Industrial Revolution would lead to so much social unrest that eventually the workers would overthrow the the the means of production, essentially the bourgeoisie. Right. So so then their prediction was that communism wasn't something that might happen. It was something that would happen. It was inevitable. Right. And that when it was going to happen was when they actually wrote in 1848. And where it was going to happen was everywhere. Everywhere. Right. So so the theory then was that that the communist revolution was going to happen now. And it was going to happen everywhere. Okay. But now we have to ask ourselves, when did the communist revolution actually happen? Let me help you. Never. This worldwide revolution never happened. Right. And so where did it happen? Nowhere. You guys get what I'm saying? So communism, when they predict that communist revolution is going to happen now and everywhere, but the communist revolution actually happens nowhere and never and nowhere. That's a big problem in the theory, isn't it? And we'll talk more about that when we get into the 20th century when the United States becomes officially kind of anti communist. Right. Okay. But anyway, communism is not going to be seen as a good solution for Americans because why? What happens to property in a communist system? I don't know, Nanny. Right. Well, you do actually everybody owns everything in common. Right. So so really, the idea behind communism is that rather than having private property ownership, that everybody would own everything in common and that those people who own property in common, they own property in common. Right. So so really, the idea behind communism is that rather than having private property ownership, that everybody would own everything in common and that those people who had more would give voluntarily things to people who had less so that everybody had enough. Right. So, the problem with that, then, is that sharing does only seems like a good idea when you don't have anything. Right. So, so when when let's say that you have a car and I don't have a car, then I think you should lend me your car. But if I have a car and you don't have a car, I think you should get your own car. You see what I'm saying? So so we don't like to share. We like to share things when we don't have anything. But when we have things, we want to hold on to them. And so what we'll see happen is that communism is not going to be seen as a good solution for Americans because why? And so what we'll see happen is that communism will become popular in many places in Europe and other places in the world later. Right. But but not in the United States. And the reason why is because in the United States, people, even people who don't have property believe that they can get it. The United States is a land of opportunity. Right. And all I need is my is my big break or all I needed to do is work a little harder or whatever. Right. So there was a Canadian scholar who commented on why communism never took off in the United States is because America doesn't have any poor people. We only have temporarily displaced millionaires. Right. And at some point, we're always going to we're all going to get rich. And that idea is what keeps us from from adopting a A concept of sharing everything because because even though I don't have anything now, I might have something someday and I don't want to have to share it with you. You know what I'm saying? So Americans don't like communism because Americans like stuff. We all have stuff and we all want more stuff. And we want to hold on to our stuff. You follow I'm saying here. So American communism, it's not to say there never were communists in America. There were. Right. But in the in the big picture, communism was never a popular idea in the United States. Never has been. Okay. Questions, comments about any of that. All right. So the next one is social Darwinism. Social Darwinism comes from Darwin's or the idea of Darwinism. Let's go. Let's talk about that first. Darwin wrote a book in he published in 1856 called The Origin of the Species. And in that book, he theorized that well, what was Darwin's theory? If you could sum up Darwin's theory in one sentence, what would it be? Great. I'm glad you said that because that's not what that's what we attribute to him. But that's not what he actually wrote. Okay. What he actually wrote was that that his his purpose essentially was to What was Darwin's theory? If you could sum up Darwin's theory in one sentence, what would it be? Survival of the fittest. Great. I'm glad you said that because that's not what that's what we attribute to him. But that's not what he actually wrote. Okay. What he actually wrote was that that his his purpose essentially was to Argue in favor of the idea of evolution in the natural world. So it was more more kind of scientific than it was social, but it was also from this rational point of view. Right. Because up until this time, Christians had believed that everything that God created had existed from the very beginning and still existed. Right. And it was unchanging. But what Darwin noticed when he started studying the fossil record in Argentina, and then later in the Pacific Islands, is that is that over time, that there was evidence of creatures that once existed in the world. That no longer exist. Right. And so his theory was first off that that counters the Christian view that everything that exists always has existed. Right. But but his theory was that there was there were times when there was a change in environment that caused a crisis in the biological environment. Okay. So, so, you know, it's not that the human body was always existed. Right. But, but his theory was that there was there were times when there was a change in environment that caused a crisis in the biological community. And then the human body, the human body was always existed. Right. And so his theory was that there was a change in environment that caused a crisis in the biological community. Right. And so his theory was that there was a change in environment that caused a crisis in the biological community. Right. And that's not what what Darwin theorized what Darwin Darwin theorized was that it was essentially random, how some, some Some organisms survived and some didn't. He called it random selection. Right. But it really what we're going to see happen is that is that it's going to be a later group of people who will take the theories of Darwin and apply them to society. Right. So, so in Darwin, we can see maybe that the experiment would be that there were that there were people in society or countries in the world. And we're going to see both of these this weekend. Next week to write, but today we'll think about people in society. That some people were able that there was a change in environment. And the environment change was a change from an agrarian economy to a manufacturing economy. And that the reason the it created stresses on the social structure where some people were able to adapt and thrive in the in the new industrial environment. And some people could not adapt and they would not be able to survive. So according to the social Darwinist all the stresses that are being caused by the Industrial Revolution are stresses that are natural and that that that then that People that are strong be able to adapt and survive and those people who are suffering now. We should just let them die. Because if they die, then the ones that are left over are stronger. Right. So, so this process of evolution and letting the weak people die means that the society that emerges will be stronger because the weak people aren't going to survive. Right. So that's the essence of social Darwinism. So, so when we look at it in the big picture, then how does it solve the problem. The way that it solves the problem is that it gets rid of all the people that are experiencing problems. They just die out. Right. And because of that everybody that's left over is strong enough and they will be able to survive and there won't be any social upheaval. All right. You guys get what I'm saying here. Okay, so it was actually the social Darwinist that came up with this idea of survival of the fittest and and then later Darwin went back and rewrote his social system. within it right. Okay. Questions. Comments. About any of this. Get's following me here. Alright, what is the problem with this, the idea of social Darwinismît This is a question of shops being sold out. about any of this. You guys follow me here? All right, what is the problem with the idea of social Darwinism? I mean, other than the fact that it's a monstrous ideology, that you should just let suffering people die so then weaken society. I guess with modern technology especially, that doesn't really like equate to anything. Like Stephen Hawking was not the fittest person, obviously, but because of technology, he was able to contribute to society. Right, well, Kay, that's part of it, I guess you could say. But the main thing is, let's say, if you're a social Darwinist, you're a social Darwinist, you're a social Darwinist, you're a social Darwinist, you're a social Darwinist, you're a social Darwinist, you're a social Darwinist, you're a social Darwinist, okay, but the main thing is, let's say, that we're considering one of the weaker members of society as somebody who can't make a living in this new industrial society, right? Meaning they can't get food and they can't pay the rent and that sort of thing. What are those people going to do when they're suffering? Are they just going to lay down in the street and say, well, that's it, I'm done for? Or what do you think they would do? What would you do? Riot? I'm sorry? Riot? Yeah, exactly, you would cause upheaval, right? So the reality of social Darwinism is that in theory, well, the theory of social Darwinism is that or the weaker section would just die out, the reality of it is that they won't die out quietly, but they'll create a lot more upheaval in the meantime and so then we may end up with creating the situation that makes Marxist predictions true, right? So social Darwinism is, even though it was really adopted by a lot of intelligent people in the United States, it doesn't become something that Americans are very comfortable with and I think that that idea is there for really two reasons. One is that moral reason that Americans don't look at people who are suffering, generally speaking, as a burden, but as people that need to be helped, and so there's that moral dimension, but there's also the practical dimension, which is that if you just let people suffer and don't do anything to stop it, it's going to get worse, it's not going to get better, right? And then that could mean, for example, that I could lose all my stuff, okay? Because there's a new class of people, we talked about already the middle class, the rise of the middle class, and this class is going to be, really you could kind of think about it as a managerial class, right? So as we industrialize, the corporations become less personal, they become kind of entities on their own that are made up of individuals, and the individuals that actually make those corporations work are the managers, right? And so those people then will be the middle class, right? It will include the managerial class, it also will include, around this era, there were the formation of a lot of professional societies, like, for example, the American Medical Association, the American Dental Association, the American Historical Association, right? And these were what we would consider to be middle class interests forming their own interest groups, okay? And these interests, this middle class, is going to acquire property, right? It's not going to be a huge mansion on the cliffs in Rhode Island, right? But it's going to be a little house in your neighborhood with a little lawn and a white picket fence and all that, right? And so what that really means is that the middle class is now invested in the surplus that's being created by the Industrial Revolution, and they want to keep it, right? And they are going to be afraid that if the social problems created by the Industrial Revolution aren't addressed, there's a real possibility they might lose all their stuff, right? You guys get what I'm saying? So these are going to be the people then that are going to be pushing for reform and actually making reform happen, okay? It actually comes from the middle. It doesn't come from the top, and it doesn't come from the bottle. A lot of things come from the bottle, but not that. Okay, it doesn't come from the bottom. It comes from the middle, okay? So now we're going to talk about one other way of addressing social problems, which you probably haven't heard of before, but if you think about it, you're really familiar with it, right? And that's positivism, okay? So positivism is an idea that was thought up by this guy, Auguste Comte. You may or may not have ever heard of him. He's the guy who theorized that you could consider society as a kind of a scientific environment, right? And that if you put people in society or you put countries in the society of nations, right, that those people could be managed scientifically, right? So his idea was that you could manage society scientifically into what we call modernization, which we talked about the other day, what that is, right, industrialization and liberalism, but he was also the founder of the study of sociology. So if you ever had to take that class, this is the guy you're going to blame for it, right? But at any rate, that idea that he had would be adopted. I'm going to give you a historical example, right? That idea that he had was adopted by Mexico, right? Because in Mexico, there was a great upheaval, well, actually, for a number of different years. But eventually what ended up happening was that the conflict situation in Mexico was resolved by the ascending to power of this handsome gentleman here, Porfirio Diaz, who was president of Mexico essentially for 40 years, okay? And the idea behind his idea, his strategy for rule was that because Mexico was behind and it was behind because of all the warfare that they'd fought. So it wasn't an industrialized, it wasn't a modernized country. And going with the formula that we talked about when we talked about on the first day, the formula was modernize or be colonized, right? He and many other people in the world are working to try to modernize their society so that it doesn't become colonized, right? And Mexico was under threat of colonization, at least on an economic level, which we'll talk about next week, right? By the United States and by Britain and by France, Germany, right? All these different countries that are industrializing that are, they see Mexico as ripe for exploitation because they have lots of resources and they're not modernized. You follow what I'm saying? So then the strategy was, well, we have to modernize society in order to be able to keep from being colonized. But we also know that industrialization leads to a lot of social upheaval. So what we're going to do is rather than just start to industrialize, we're going to manage that industrialization by scientists. And so when Porfirio Diaz comes to power in the 1880s, 1870s, 1876, I think. But anyway, the point here is that the group of people that he appoints to run the nation and to modernize the nation are called científicos, scientists, right? So the idea then is that they're going to apply these scientific principles to Mexican society and economy in order to bring Mexico into modernization so that they will be among the industrial powers rather than among the colonized powers. You guys get what I'm saying? Okay, well, that actually didn't really work out, okay, for a number of different reasons, and we'll talk some a little bit later. But these ideas are going to be popular in many other places, including the United States, right? The United States will, the progressives will look at the idea of positivism and will say, well, this actually makes sense, right? That we should, rather than having everything run by money and power, we should actually scientifically control society so that we can achieve, we can overcome these social problems, right? So the idea then is society can be scientifically managed to modernization. And Americans, some Americans, progressives, will start to believe this, but there's a problem with it in the United States. And what is that? What's the problem? What's the problem with the idea that scientists should be running the country? Because a lot of people may have religious views, and on top of that, they may not have political experience and stuff. So they may just be going based off evidence or what they think is right. Okay, I can see where you're coming from there, but let me just ask you this. How do you become a scientist? Can you be elected scientist? No, you go to school. Yeah, you have to be educated, right? Okay, so then means then if only the people that can be rulers are scientists, what does that tell us about the government? Is it a democratic government? No. Think about, like, for example, in, let's say San Diego. At San Diego, at one point, they had a mayor and a city council, and they were all elected, right? And then all the departments were run by people that were put in place by the elected people, right? And they were patronage jobs, meaning that they could change at any time, and they didn't even have to have any experience, right? So you could be chief of police and not even know, have ever known anything about police, right? Or you might want to use the police to support your drug running operation or something like that, right? So in California, this group of progressives, and it's not just here, but I mean, in many places as well at the same time, they're going to say, okay, well, instead of having that, what we're going to do is we'll have an elected mayor and a city council, but all of the departments will be run by people who are scientists, right? Okay, so that means essentially that the police chief asked to be somebody who's trained to be a police chief, not just a good friend of the mayor, right? You follow what I'm saying here? Well, here's why that's a problem. And I'm not saying it's a problem. It works really well, okay? But the problem from American point of view is that once that police chief has been put in power, you can't remove him, right? He wasn't elected and he can't be voted out of office. So what does that tell us about the government? Is it a democratic government? No. But what is the foundation for America's sense of itself? What kind of a government do we have? Democracy? Democracy in theory, right? So that's why when Americans look at positivism, when they look at, like, for example, what happened in Mexico, they'll notice that positivism is inherently anti-democratic, right? Because you can't be elected scientist. Okay, so then what happens is that American will take these ideas of positivism and they will essentially change the name and kind of change the theme a little bit and call it progressivism, okay? Now the difference between positivism and progressivism is kind of twofold because in most places, like in Mexico, positivism wasn't something that the people chose. It was chosen by the leaders, right? But in America, progressive reforms are enacted at the ballot box, right? So the reforms that we see that came about in the last part of the 19th and early part of the 20th century, for example, in California, where they decided they were no longer going to have, you know, the old machine politics of the mayor and city council, but they were going to actually enact, you know, they're going to actually put in place civil service reforms. That was something that was voted on by the people. The people actually made that happen, right? So it is democratic in a way, but then once those reforms are enacted, that's when it becomes not democratic, right? Because once the police chief is a police chief, you can't get rid of him unless he does something wrong, you know what I'm saying? Questions, comments, you can't just get rid of him because you don't like him, right? OK, so at any rate, when we look at the reform era in the United States, the reforms are going to be more based on this last idea and not on the first idea, right? So really, both of the first ideas are rejected by Americans because Americans are concerned about being able to keep their property. And basically, that's it, right? But positivism, what it does is it allows people to maintain their property and enhances their ability to keep it because of the fact that it does do away with social upheaval. And we'll talk about that in a second. All right, questions, comments about any of this? OK, you sure everybody's good, right? OK, let's talk about some of these reforms that go into place during this era. OK, and keep in mind that these are all brought about by election, by voting, right? Right, OK, so first one, direct democracy, where rather than having everything done by the governor and the legislature or by the president and the Congress, especially in the states, we see the implementation of these three reforms, the proposition, the referendum and the recall. And we should be familiar with all of those here in California because everybody knows that whenever there's an election, there's signs all over the place saying yes on 13 and no on seven and that sort of thing, right? And what are we voting on? We're voting on things that we think should be enacted into law. And if there's a majority that's in favor of a certain proposition, then it gets enacted into law. Right, so that's us ruling ourselves. That's direct democracy. OK, you follow what I'm saying? So that's the proposition. The referendum is when the legislature does something that we think is wrong, we can actually vote to have that law repealed. Right. So, so let's say that we have a proposition, Proposition IC, and that proposition says everybody gets ice cream on Tuesdays. Right. And we like that idea. So we go ahead and vote for everybody getting ice cream on Tuesdays. Right. And it goes into law, but the legislature doesn't like that. Right. Because they're, you know, invested in the chocolate industry, so they don't want to, they don't want people eating ice cream, they want to be eating candy. So they pass a law saying nobody gets ice cream. Right. So, so in one sense we enacted a law that we wanted. And then we see the legislature acting against our interests, so we can, we can overthrow that law, we could do away with that law, right, by voting, if the majority of the people say that law shouldn't go into an effect, then it doesn't. Right. You get what I'm saying. So, so that's the referendum, and then recall is when you don't like what the politicians doing you can vote them out of office. All right. So all of those things together you can see that happening right now with Newsom, a lot of people are trying to recall Newsom, right, and there was, I was Gray Davis actually was recalled. Right. And that's when the governor became governor. Right. Okay, so all three of these together then are the are the implementation of what we would call direct democracy. But let me just give you, let me give you a for a caveat to all this. And that is, in order to get a proposition on the ballot, you have to get so many signatures. And in order to get those signatures you gotta, you're going to have to pay people to go stand in front of the grocery store and collect them. Right. You guys have all seen them out there right and same with the referendum and recall, somebody has to ask to go and collect those signatures, and that's going to cost money. Right. And so what we see happening then is that the special interests, right, the proposition, and they hire the people to collect the signatures, so that they can get their proposition on the ballot. Right. And because they have the money, they're still able to essentially bypass this idea of direct democracy, in a way. So what we still we see is that that the special interests still have have influence on government it's just to get their influence in a different way. Instead of just paying money to the legislature, they pay it to people who collect the signatures. Right. But they still get their way. You guys get what I'm saying. And there is more democracy built into it than, than before but there is still that danger of, or that the actual reality of special interests, kind of hijacking that whole thing. Questions comments about any of that. You all propositions require signatures or just be big money. No, no, they have to be. You have to have a certain number of the registered voters who who sign in favor of the proposition. Right. And then once it's on the ballot, then generally the people would vote for it in the next election, unless, like for example there was a proposition. It was the proposition to divide California into three different states right and they act that actually was. They did collect signatures for that but then it was it was was rejected by the courts, so it never went on the ballot. Any other questions comments. Okay. All right, so that's that's direct democracy also direct election of us senators you guys will remember that we talked on Monday about how the Senate had become a millionaires club because they were appointed by the states and the states to the people that were the senators could actually buy their way into office and then they would work for whoever gave them the money rather than than the people that elected them. And so that will be actually enacted in 1913, where 17th amendment to the Constitution says that that all election, all senators are elected. And that's what we see happening everywhere today including in California we saw that Kamala Harris was elected senator. When Barbara boxer retired. But interestingly, when she left office. Then, how do we choose who took her place. Governor chose. Exactly. And that's how it was done before the 17th Amendment. You get what I'm saying. That same thing happened for example in Illinois, when, when, when Barack Obama was elected president. He was senator from Illinois so he left his, his, his seat in the Senate to become president, which left that seat open, and then the governor. And then, and then he ended up going to jail for that right. He was pardoned by Trump but but he went to jail for selling a Senate seat, essentially. Right. You get what I'm saying. Right. You get what I'm saying. So, and that shows us then how the corruption could be easily built into the senators be appointed by the states right questions comments. All right. Labor protections. Remember that before we talked about the, the, the workers to proletariat, who we say is in for example on the movie that we watched listening arrows, right. And they were forced to work long hours for barely enough to live on. And also there was no protection for for any class of labor, actually, right, so we had kids as little as five and six years old, working in factories and working in mines, things like that right. So, one of the things that's going to one of the kind of class of things that's going to come out of the progressive era is going to be the 40 hour work week, and and child labor laws and things like that the thing that we need to understand is that like for example when we looked at that law, that movie, most minerals. But what that movie told us was that it was the unions that actually caused these changes to come about. But the reality was that the unions didn't become powerful until after World War Two. And these laws were put in place before. Well before World War Two, even before World War One. Right. And so then, who was it that actually did this wasn't the labor movement because the labor movement was essentially dead in the United States. At the time there was, there were unions but they were not popular and they weren't very many people in them. Right. So this, these labor protections are putting place by by progressives, who we already said were the middle class. Right. So why would the middle class be interested in putting in protections for the workers. That. Well I mean, the child labor laws make sense, because, because you shouldn't be working children like that anyways. Why. I mean, because, like, I don't like morally like I don't know like they. I mean, for children they're developing they have to do school dangerous, I guess. developmental growth. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Right. But, um, what if you don't care about that. What if you care about all you care about making money. I'm sorry. Well, I mean, that's, that's the thing what we see happening there is what happened everywhere in the Industrial Revolution. Right. So, so the idea that yeah I mean yeah it's morally wrong. But what happens if you're the parents of a kid that gets killed in a mine. How are you going to respond to that. Are you going to be happy. No, no you're not gonna you're not going to be happy. No, what do you, what are you more likely to do. Are you going to be a good happy worker after that. Are you going to be an outstanding member of society after that. Exactly. My two weeks, get out of there. If, well you couldn't though because if you, you know if you got out of there you would get nothing. There was no place to go. Right. So, I mean, that's the thing. So, so what then that does is it creates social conflict social upheaval. Right. And if there's enough social upheaval. What happens. What happens is that the people that are property owners, they lose your stuff. They lose their stuff. Exactly. So, so we look at when we look at the, the progressive interest in labor reforms, the progressives weren't laborers, but they were interested in labor reforms. And there was a moral, a moral component to it that many of them saw that the suffering of the people was wrong and needed to be addressed, but there was also this economic component as well because if we don't want people who own things don't want social upheaval. They want calm. Right. And you're not going to get calm by creating a class of people that hates you. Right. You follow I'm saying. So, so there was basically both of those things, but it was, it was really put in place by progressives, rather than the unions unions come later, and unions are really important. But at this point in time they were pretty ineffective. Okay. Questions, comments about this. Okay, so corporate regulation antitrust anti monopoly railroad regulation is to address. Well, you know, really anti consumer policies are put in place by by companies. And so we say okay we're going to regulate the companies. Who is that going to hurt. Let's say it this way. Let's say it the other way around. We don't regulate the companies, who does that hurt. The workers, workers, or and not just the workers but consumers in general right because the prices are fixed. There's no competition. Right. Okay. But now if we are able to regulate corporations who benefits consumers. What about, I mean, if you think about it, the corporations also benefit. Because, because the working, the working. The workers essentially will be more happy. Right. And because of that they'll be able to the regulation actually helps them it doesn't help them in terms of their, you know, immediate bottom line but it does help them in the long term by by allowing them to stay in, in, in business right. You guys are with me questions comments. So, generally speaking, the corporations will never support any of this stuff but if you look at it in a pragmatic way you can see that it actually does help them. All right. Questions, comments. Oh sorry, sorry, comment. That reminds me of. I don't know if the story is true or not. But, Ford, giving his workers Saturdays off so that way they'd go buy his cars. Yeah, well, I mean that was a big thing for was one of the first companies to introduce things like company health insurance and, you know, limits on the amount of work you could do and things And the reason why was because he realized that if he kept his workers happy, they would work better and make better products for him. And he'd make more money. Right. You see I'm saying. And there, he wasn't the only one that did that he was the first one but then afterwards people started to see the problem was that I think there was an era, really, right around the time of the progressive era, when American corporations started to see that they had a responsibility to the common good. Right. But that's, that's kind of an anomaly. In general, corporations are not going to be interested in the common good corporations are going to be interested in the bottom line. Right. And that's more like the way we see it today you don't see companies acting in ways that are helpful to, to the, to people, they see them acting in ways that that will acquire as much wealth as possible for their shareholders. You fall on Sam. And so you wouldn't I think there's just some good companies out there that kind of, you know, like, once you get inside them, they take care of their employees like a lot better than other companies do. I do I do agree with that but they're also, they're not. The only way that they would be socially responsible would be if, if it was to their benefit. And if it was to their benefit to not be socially responsible, then they would, they would do that if they had to choose between being socially responsible and not making money and being socially responsible and making money. A lot of them would choose the former or whatever you know what I'm saying right. Okay, not everyone. But that's the problem. The problem is that without government regulation. They might, or they might not. It's up to them with government regulation and they're, they're required to act in the public interest. I'm not saying here. And so anyway, that's, that's really the argument for and against regulation. Okay. Okay, so then the next thing. Social experimentation and control. Prohibition was one the idea here's the idea behind probation right. That drinking turned out to be a big problem among the working classes. And the reason why was because you had some guy who was a non skilled worker was like working down at the docks, and he would get paid either at the end of the day or at the end of the week, whatever. Right. And he would take he would get paid in cash, and he would take that money. And on the way home he'd stop off at the bar. And he start drinking. And he'd spend all the money. And then he'd show up at home, sometime around midnight drunk, and the wife would be waiting for him there with the, you know, the, the roller to start beating on him. And, and, and then there would be, you know, he beat her up. Right. And then the next thing you know, there's all this domestic turmoil and then then on top of that, because he's not bringing home the money, they get thrown out into the streets. Right. And that creates even more social turmoil. Right. So, how do you respond to that, or the way the progressives decided to respond to it was, let's just make drinking illegal. Right. You make it illegal, nobody will drink. Is that make sense. Yeah, well, I mean, yeah on paper yes but you know people are going to try and sneak it in no matter what. Right, and that's exactly what happened so I'm sorry. That's why they made moonshine, and they started having. What was it they I can't remember what they're called but they had like these little hidden secret bars and clubs that's like, speak easy. Speak easy. Yeah, like words only word of mouth. Yeah, exactly. So, so here's the thing is like, is that the idea, the strategy was we're going to get rid of drinking, so that we can make people happier and healthier. Right. But in reality what ended up happening was that they fed into what they did was they made all the drinkers criminals. And they then they created this criminal organization that supplied alcohol to people, which ends up being organized crime. Right. So organized crime really is is created in a way by this, this misguided attempt to make society better. You follow what I'm saying. All right, so that that's kind of a. That was a kind of a backfire same thing with anti prostitution laws. Now there isn't any federal law against prostitution, but there are almost every state has laws against it except I'm pretty sure Nevada, right. Okay, so, so the idea about prostitution was that these, these young women would have to sell themselves into prostitution, and able to in order to be able to support themselves. And it was demeaning to their womanhood, and it was also demeaning to their humanity, and it was harmful to them. Right. And so we're going to make it illegal. And if we make it illegal. That means nobody will do it anymore right. No. No, no, because they were doing it to survive so it's a choice legal or not. It's the same. It's the same. In fact, it makes the problem worse because before these anti prostitution laws, prostitutes lived in houses, there were houses of prostitution. Now they can't do that so they're standing out on the streets. You follow I'm saying, so they're in more danger now than they were before. I'm not saying that we should support prostitutes I'm just saying that this effort to regulate prostitution turns out to be to have unintended negative consequences. You guys get what I'm saying, questions, comments. Okay, and then finally expansion of the franchise. Now, this is, this is partly. It was, it was part of the progressive platform for women's women's suffrage, not suffering but suffrage. Right. But it was also instinct, it was also encouraged by America's entry into World War One. And the reason why was because the United States entered the war, and a lot of men were sent to war. And those men who went to war were patriots, but they weren't able to vote, because they were overseas. And those days there wasn't absentee ballots and mail ballots and that sort of thing right. So, so what that meant was that the only people who could actually vote, or the men who didn't go to war, and they were a bunch of cowards and wussies. Right. You follow I'm saying, but, but women. There were patriotic women who couldn't vote. But if we gave them the vote, then they would vote. They would vote in. They would be a counterbalance I guess you could say to the cowards and wussies. Right. And so that was one of the things that caused the, the 19th Amendment, actually to be enacted, because the way an amendment is enacted, is it's passed by the Congress, and then it has to go to the states and two thirds of the states have to ratify it in order for it to become a law. And that was not likely to happen until World War One happened and this situation of the, of the men, the voting men being gone, voting population being gone. There are actually some states that have still not ratified the 19th Amendment. Mostly states in the south. But, but, but Alabama. Yeah, exactly. But because it's a federal law. So, we have to allow women's voting anyway, you guys given the same questions comments. Let's think about this now. Who does expansion, who does, allowing women to vote. Who does that help women in the populace in general literally everyone. Exactly, everyone. And that's one of the benefits from more people being able to vote. Right. You guys get what I'm saying. Okay. All right, we'll just leave it at that. Okay. I, to be honest with you ontologically I cannot imagine why how people could could support the idea of excluding women from, from society. And that's because of my ontological outlook today not because of historically I probably would have thought differently if I lived at the time. So, anyway, questions comments about any of this. You guys had enough. All right. Well, okay. Remember we're going to have a discussion on Monday, and I hope that you guys, let me just end this here. I hope that you guys have a good weekend. If you need any help I'll be on my office hours one to two, and live long and prosper. Thank you, Professor. Thank you, Professor. Thank you. All right. Guys have a good year. Professor, we have a question for you. Okay. I just heard you say what time your office hours are. And I was wondering if you had any other office hours available because I actually have a class between 1245 and 230. I don't but if it's not, if it's not. If it's not urgent, you know I can, I'll have days in the class in the class that will be set aside for office hours. Okay, I didn't have any other questions aside from that I just wanted to know for future reference. Thank you. The other thing is if you have if you have an urgent question you can ask me right now. No, I don't have a question that was my only question for future reference. Okay, well just so you know and anybody can know this is that is that you know if you have a question and you want it to be private we can go into a chat room, whatever. Right. But yeah, I'm available. Generally speaking after class unless, you know, unless we go late which we usually don't. So, okay. Okay. Thank you, Professor. All right, you guys have a good one. Good seeing all your smiling faces this morning. Bye, Professor. Bye.