Recording it we met as soulmates on parricide we left as inmates from an asylum and we were shocked as sharp as knives and we were so gung ho to lay down our knives we came in spastic like tameless horses we left in plastic as numbered corpses and we learned thousands fast to travel light Our arms were heavy but our bellies were tight we had no no home friend we had no soft soul they sent us pray more they gave us bow hope we dug in deep and shot on sight and prayed to Jesus Christ with all of my mighty we had no cameras to shoot the landscape we passed the hatch pipe and played our doors taste and it was dark so dark at night Night, night, night and we held on to each other like brother we promised our mothers we'd rise and we would all go down together we said we all go down together yes, we would all go down together Remember Charlie? Remember Bacon? They left their childhood on every acre and who was wrong and who was white Right, right, right. It didn't matter in the thick of the fights we held the day in the palm they ruled the night and the night seemed to last as long as six weeks on Parasite we held the coastline they held us highland and they were sharp as sharp as knives, knives, knives, knives they heard the hum of the motors they counted the rotors and waited for us to arrive and we would all go down together we then we all fall down together yes, we would all go down together Sam. Yes. So come on, you guys. I want to see your lovely faces. There you go. So how are you guys doing today? Fine, thank you. How about you? Are you guys ready for a discussion? Yes. Yes. Okay, good. Can I help you with anything before we get started on the discussion? You guys are all coming. Oh, go ahead. I have a couple of questions. Okay, good. The Hawaiian Monarchy thing. Yeah. I don't know why, but I thought that was going to be our group project. That's just the homework that's due on the last day. Right. It's a different. It's a different assignment. Okay, so the Hawaii Monarchy Documents is a historical methods exercise to show how to use sources and how to analyze sources. The project is a different kind of exercise designed to show us why studying history is relevant. Does that make sense? Yeah, I just. I don't know why I thought that so. Because we just haven't talked about it, but. No, I realize that we haven't, so. But hopefully you guys are working on it. If there's any problem with it, let me know. I can help you with It. All right, that was it. Okay. Any other questions? Yeah, so when last week we pushed the assignment we did this time which was called like the. I forget what it was called. The Vietnam and civil rights. Yeah. And then there was another assignment due to today as well that didn't. I don't know if was supposed to get pushed, but there's like the fall. Oh, that's. No, I changed the syllabus. You guys. Let me still. It's still due on the modules. I figured it wasn't due today, but it's. It, it. Let me just take a look here. It's the bottom module. Very, very bottom. Yeah, that's actually. It's called the fall. Yeah, 26th. Oh, see, I can't keep up with myself. Let me. I figured that was the case, but I'm glad you asked me that. So that is going to be to next week, is that right? Let me just. Let me look at the syllabus first. Hold on a. Yeah. Okay. It's going to be for this Wednesday. Okay, so I'm gonna go ahead and change that right now. Otherwise I'll for. I used to be able to remember everything. I never had to take notes or anything. So we're gonna make that to 28. And this is to. All right. Does that answer your question? I guess. Did I. Did I lose all you guys? All right, you had it left, Professor. You had it left as Wednesday that's going to be due still this Wednesday. Not me. You put it for April 28th. No, actually April 28th is when it is due. This coming Wednesday. Yeah. And then May 28th is the end of the semester. So all of the. Remember I told you I left all of the assignments open till the end of the semester in case you weren't able to turn them in. That makes sense. Sorry. Okay, any other questions that I can help you with? Let me go ahead and go back then. Oh, the document's here. Hold on a second. Right there. Yeah. Okay, you guys can see my document. Okay. Any other questions before I get started on this? We're just going to do the discussion and that's it. Right. Let me look at the doc. At the questions here. Well, first off, let me just get your reaction to the readings. It was good to find out a more in depth view because I've always heard about the scandal, but I never knew people involved in how it all played out and stuff. So what scandal are you talking about? Well, the fall video. Oh, yeah, but that's. That's Wednesday. We're. I'm Talking about the documents for today? Yeah. Oh, which one was for today then? Huh? I'm sorry, I thought we were on that. My fault. No, no, no. What, what about the documents for today? Hello. Did you guys read the documents? Yes. What was the question you were asking? What did you think about the documents? Oh, I thought it was super interesting. I thought it was. It was really interesting. I had read the things they carried before in a long time ago in high school, and it was super interesting. I didn't really remember it that well, but reading parts of it again, really helped me remember. But I think it's good insight. I mean, it's, it's. I think it's super interesting to hear different sides of the story and see different people's perspective. What about, what about anybody else? You guys did read this document, right? Yes. Because it's going to be very difficult for us to discuss if you guys didn't read the document. And, and not only that, I really think that today's document. Let me just take a poll. How many of you guys. And be honest now. How many of you guys did not read the document? Put your hand up on the, on the little thing there. I didn't finish. Okay, so there's, there's a place where you can put, where we at here. If you go to reactions at the bottom of the screen. Yeah, reactions. And everybody put. Everybody that didn't read it, put your hands up. Shota, did you read it? No. Okay. Why didn't you put your hand up? I did, but you can't see me. What about Rachel? I did not read it. I did read it. You did read it? Yeah. I was waiting to jump in on the discussion. I was pulling up the document, so I had them next to me. Oh, okay. All right. Well, well, I can't get. I can't get a good feeling. Just in two people that didn't read it. Is that right? Three people. I'll tell you what. I, I'm. I'm gonna do this. I'm going to leave the document, the assignment for the fall to be due on Wednesday, and I'm going to allow you guys to finish reading the documents today. I think it is very important that you read these documents. Which document was it? Just to be clear, because I'm trying to find it now. It's the Vietnam. Vietnam and the City on Fire, or. No, it's not City on Fire, it's this one here. Vietnam and Civil Rights. Yeah. Can you see that? So I want you guys to read this document. I want you to Read the whole thing. I want you to especially read the last part, which is a speech by Martin Luther King. It's not the I have a Dream speech. It's a speech about Vietnam. And when then I want us to come together on Wednesday and discuss it. And we'll also discuss the fall, probably a little bit. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions. But I want you to go ahead and watch that video. But use today's class as taking time to read these documents. It's very important that you read these documents. You need. You need to. You need to read these documents. Where the. What are the questions? I'm sorry, I watch video, but did not read documents. Okay, well, go ahead and read the documents, then. Everybody has time. What question? Where's another question? What was the other question? Are there questions for. Yeah. In the method exercise two? No, it's in the document itself. Document says it's not the first set of questions. It's the second one. Right. The one that has like nine questions or something like that. Not the one that has four questions either. Where I thought I had it. Yeah, there it is. So it's on page four. I think this is the beginning of the document. And you go down and these are the document. These are the questions. Nine questions on page four. And you don't have to do citations, meaning you don't have to write footnotes. You can just look at. Find the information in the questions and answer the questions. Okay. The main thing is I'm not really concerned so much with the answers to the questions as I am concerned with you guys actually reading the documents. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions. So take this time and read the documents. We've got time. All right. We got plenty of time in the course. So go ahead and read the documents and then I'll see you guys on Wednesday morning. I was gonna say, if we completed assignment and read it, are we just gonna go? Yeah. Cool. Yeah. If you've already read it, then just don't forget it between now and Wednesday. Sounds good. Okay, you guys are good? Yeah. All right. Because I really want us to have a good discussion about these documents. I think they're very important, and so I want you to spend the time to read them. They're not that difficult. All right, so. So there. I'm just going to leave it right there. Is everybody good questions, comments about anything? I want to ask you some questions that probably everybody else doesn't need to stay on. Okay. All right, well, go ahead and stay on then. And everybody else, you can. You can leave. Thank you. Thank you, professor. You guys. Thank you, Professor. Sorry, Professor. See it. No worries. Live long and prosper. Thank you. Peace and long life. Okay, so a lot of things going on toward the end of the semester. I'm sure everybody does, but I do. So I just wanted to kind of get an idea because I'm not going to be in town at the very end. I'm going to be out of town. So I want to get everything prepared before I leave. So on the Last day, the 26th, what exactly are we doing? Like, I know that Hawaiian thing is due on that day. I think that's what it said. 5, 26. Well, it's. I've set aside for a final exam. More than likely, I'll do the final exam the same way I did the midterm, which means that it will be due on the 26th, but you guys will be have some time before that to work together to answer the questions. So we're doing the questions as a group again, Right. Okay. What do you think about that? Anyway, Just let me ask you off the top of your head. I don't like it. Really? Why is that? Because I. I spent a good deal of time answering all the questions and having them all, like, set. So when. When the midterm came, I was like, awesome. I'll be done like in 10 minutes. Because it was already. All I had to do is cut and paste. Right. And then, you know, so it kind of, you know, it took more time and I. It's just being bitchy about it. It's not. It's not that big a deal. But. Yeah, I understand. And I should say that I've never been. I've never been a big fan of group work because I tend to, like, you do my work ahead of time and make sure that it's done and ready to go. And. And I don't want to be placed in a category with a bunch of people who haven't done their work or won't do their work. Right. Yeah, I didn't care about that. Like, I don't care. I was gonna do the work I was gonna do no matter what. The reason why I've done it that way is because I have a feeling that people aren't learning very well in this. In this environment. And my real interest is in making sure people take away from this class, you know, important. His important historical information. And so I thought that if you guys work together, that would help the people who were kind of falling behind. Does that make sense? For sure. That's what's happening. Yeah. And that's. That's why I did it that way. It was. It was. I was really hoping that you guys could carry each other. Yeah. That part I don't really. I didn't really care about. I was just like, oh, I was going to be finished. Yeah, I get it. I understand. Well, anyway, that's what we're probably going to do. Okay. Are we doing another book exam? No. Okay. So I didn't even schedule it. I. Actually, the only reason why I give the book exam is because. To coerce you guys into reading the book. Because if I don't give a test, you won't read it. You know, I spend $70 on a book you don't read and get $30 back when you sell it back. Right. So, okay. So, okay, so we just have the questions, and that'll be with everybody else. But we have time to do it. You have turn in the Y thing, and we're going to do the. The panel, and that's it. Okay. I think I can do this. And the way that we're going to. We'll have plenty of time with that, because the way I set it up is as if we were going to go do two every day. And most classes have six. Six groups, but we only have four, so it won't take us more than two days to do the panel discussions. Okay. Yeah. The other thing that I worry about with the group projects is actually. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. Okay. It'll be fine. That's all I needed. Thank you so much. Well, I appreciate your asking the questions. And I'll see you on Wednesday. Okay. Bye. Bye. All right. Have a good one. You, too.