He was a famous trumpet man from all Chicago way He had a pokey style that no one else could blame he was the top man at his craft but then his number came up and he was gone with the draft he's in the army now a blowin revelry he's the boogie woogie bugle boy of Company B they made him blow a bugle for his uncle Sam it really brought him down because he couldn't jam the captain seemed to understand because the next day the cap went out and drafted a band and now the company jumps when he plays reveille He's a boogie wookie bugle bar of Company B A toot a toot a toot toot attitude blows a day to the bar in boogie rhythm he can't blow a note unless a bass and guitar is playing with him he makes a company jump when he plays R He's the boogie boogie bugle boy of Company B He was a boogie boogie bugle boy of Company B and when he plays boogie boogie bugle he was busy as a bean and when he plays he makes the company jump ahead to the bar He's a boogie boogie can blow to the bar he can blow a note if the be and guitar isn't and the company jumps when he plays R He's a boy of company he puts the boys asleep with Pookie every night and wakes them up the same way in the early bright they clap their hands and stamp their feet because they know how he plays when someone gives him a beat he really breaks it up when he plays ravalier he is the pookie will give him a company be did you guys like my song? Did you like my song? Sure. Do you know why I played that song today? One of the Andrew Sisters was in the book we read. Exactly. Any questions, comments about anything that I can help you with? You know, Wednesday morning we're going to be having our exam, right? So everybody has to be here for the exam. All right. Anything I can help you with at all before we get started? Well, what did you guys think? Did you guys read the book, Right? You guys all read it? I. I don't see a lot of nods there. I only see one or two. Did you guys read the book or not? The Good War? Yeah, I read it. Yeah. Did you like. Was my. It was my, like, more favorite read. I like the individual stories and then how it stopped and then it was like a completely new story. I thought that that was like really interesting. So I like the Can't Remember Alfred Duckett? I want to say that one was really interesting. The one with the ammunition loader. Right. What about. What about the rest of you? Yeah, I also read it. I thought it was. I agree with theme. I thought the individual stories were extremely interesting and how they gave me, like, new perspectives on how people viewed World War II, especially common people, also African Americans during the time. And I also gave perspectives of like, people who worked in ammunitions, like moving crates and stuff, and how they saw the war. And. Yeah, I thought it was really interesting. And it's definitely a little more engaging because he's, you know, it was a two. It was a new story every single time. Right. It was not. It was not like kind of like blah, blah, blah, blah, History, history. It's just like, you know, I mean, I mean, I like history. Don't get me wrong. No, no, no, I get. I get sometimes it gets a little bit. Tags on. Exactly. Especially if you're reading from a textbook. I know. And that's kind of the. The which word I'm looking for contrast to what you read in the good war. Because in the textbook you get things like when I did the lecture last week and I showed you the picture, the big map of the Pacific and started talking about how many people were killed over here. And. And then they had atomic bombs and they had little cartoon mushroom clouds. Right. And that's the atomic bomb. Right. And. And that's the idea that you get history is actually about. But what is really history about? What's it really about? The people. People. Exactly. And so when. When Turkel, you guys read the introduction and when Turkel said he. He wrote this book, set out to write this book, what was the reason for that? Do you guys remember? What was the reason for writing the book? I want to say it was to give the. All the different or as much different perspectives of the war as possible. So not just the soldier, not just the person staying at home. Right. Not just the white man. So it was. It really was really diversified in the stories it told. Okay. Yeah, he chose. He. He chose a real diversity of people. But think about when he published this book, which was in the 80s, right? Yeah. It's 40 years after the war. Why does he think it's a good time now to capture people's memories of the war? At that point, it was more of like a reflection. It wasn't like people weren't so caught up in the moment of it. Okay. That's part of it. We can look back on it with some. With some reflection. Like you said, the only problem is that, I mean, I can't remember what I had for lunch yesterday. So how could I remember what happened 40 years ago? Right. It's for them to reflect on the legacy of the war rather than the war itself. Okay, maybe, but now think about this. It's 40 years after the war is over and we're talking, generally speaking to people that live during the war. What I'm thinking, they just won't be along around much longer. Right. I mean, how many people do you know that are left that are World War II veterans today? Not that many. I don't know any. I think I know one. Right. Keep in mind though that I'm much older than you guys are, generally speaking. But the people I know that were World War II veterans are in their 90s now. Right. So that means that when this was written, they would have been in their 60s. Right. But at any rate. Yeah. So he wrote it as a book of memory. He wrote. He wrote it as a book of. Who do you think he wrote it for? Future generations. Okay, future generations meaning the people who would have lived through the war. I'm sorry, the people who weren't alive during the war. Right. Okay. And what was the reason for it again? And I just said it really. It was so that. What? So that I'm not so good. Go ahead. I'm sorry. It was a pass on the memories from what had happened and to show where we came from and how we progress and change over those 40 years. So the stories, that they don't get forgotten. Yes. And because they're memoirs, what do you guys think about. I know this is maybe a little off, what I actually asked you to read, but remember we talked about historiography when we talked about the Taming so called conquest of the West. Right. What is historiography again? Isn't it like the history of history or something like that? Right. So that means it's. We look at how the narrative changes over time. Remember we talked about, there was the. I can't remember his name now. Frederick Jackson Turner wrote one, one kind of take on the conquest of the West. And then we saw later in the 70s and 80s, what they call the historians of the new West. Right. The question then is, did what happened in the west change over that time? No, what happened was the way we told the story. Right. And so what is inevitable really is that as time goes by, the story will be reinterpreted by people so that it may. We may lose what actually happened. How those people actually experience that. Right. Think about what we talked about earlier in the course when we talked about the Declaration of Independence or the Boston Tea Party. Right? For us. Or, you know, the. The first Thanksgiving with the Pilgrims and all that. Right? Okay. For us, they're just cute little stories or they're kind of heroic events, but for the people that lived through them, they were very different. You see what I'm saying? And how would we know that if we didn't have somebody tell us what they saw? Do you guys get what I'm saying? So. So that's one of the things I. I really appreciate about the book now, when we start talking about people's memories. Well, let me just. Let me say it. Let me ask it a different way. If you didn't know anything about World War II and you read Turkel's book, what would you know about World War II? But there was a lot of different perspectives on it, that people viewed it very differently. Right, but do you think that you would get a. You get a. A big picture of it? No, this allowed us to get a big picture of, like, the everyday life, the daily life, and even within, like, the military life and people who were fighting in the war, we got to see, like, different perspectives from all sides and even from different areas and cities across our. Okay, good. That's exactly right. Did you guys ever hear about going to see the elephant. Did you guys ever hear about going to see the elephant people? They had blind men going to see the elephant. To see what? That's kind of an oxymoron, isn't it? But they were going to. They had this huge elephant there, and they didn't know. They were trying to report what it was. Right? And so one of them touched the. The side of the elephant and said, it's. It's an enormous wall. And another one touched the trunk and said, it's a big fat snake. Right. And another one, you know, touched the leg and said, it's a tree trunk. You follow what I'm saying here? So each one of them had a different view, but not one of them could actually see the elephant. Does that make sense to you guys? All right, so when we look at these stories, we're looking at parts of the elephant, but we can't see the elephant. So where do we. Where do we actually look to see the elephant? History, folks. In the textbook. Exactly right. In the history books. You guys get what I'm saying? So do you think it's. Do you think that if you only saw the elephant and you didn't get this. This perspective that you would really understand the elephant. No, no, you really need to have both. Right? And that's the. The thing that we always need to remember about history is that it's about the individual people that lived it. Okay. And that means that even what we're doing here this morning is history. It's going to be history. What I just said was history. You. You get what I'm saying, though, right? Now, the thing about it is probably nobody's going to remember this. Nobody's going to put this in a textbook. Right? But nevertheless, it is history. It's the story of individual people. Right. You guys, follow me here. Questions, comments about any of that. Do you want to run through some of these questions quickly? I know you probably don't, but anyway, let's just go ahead and do it. Let me share the screen here. Hold on a second. Here we go. All right. Do you see my. Do you see the canvas screen here? All right, so let's just run through them quickly. What's the reason for interning Japanese citizens? Why. Why were the people of Japan, Japanese descent, interned and not people of German or Italian descent? I think it was probably a little bit of two reasons. I think that, one, it might have been the color of their skin, but also because they were more ruthless in battle. That, like, the American soldiers were scared of them because they had seen several instances where they would never surrender. Okay. I mean, that. That, that partially is true. There was. There was a fear that Japanese. Go ahead. I'm sorry. I feel like it was because of the whole situation with Pearl Harbor, Germany and Italy, they never made a direct attack on the U.S. however, Japan actually bombed our harbor and everything. So I feel like that the US Used that as a reason to basically treat them differently and intern them and try to see, like, what they were on, to make sure that another situation like that didn't happen again. Okay, that's. That's. That's very good. I think you're absolutely right about that. Now, let's think about. The United States was at war with both Germany and Italy at the same time, but these German and Italian descendants had been in America for 40 or 50 years now, or maybe longer. Right. And they had been through World War I. And so what did the Germans at the German descended people and the Italian descended people have that the Japanese people didn't have white skin? Well, yeah, that. Okay. But there was something else in terms of their experience already helped contribute in World War I. So they weren't an issue. Exactly. So now this is probably something you don't realize, but. Or maybe you don't know, but before the Civil War, the Irish were thought of as being some kind of. Some kind of subhuman. Right. The Irish were really thought of in the same way, I think, as maybe immigrants are today. You know, illegal immigrants are today. Okay. And they were blamed for taking away the jobs. And there was a political party that wanted to send them all back to Ireland and. But when they fought in the Civil War, after the Civil War, people said, well, they. They were part of it. They actually contributed, so they must be okay. Right. And essentially whiteness happened for these different ethnic groups, that they would. They would have to prove their. Their American ness, kind of. You saw it in that movie Los Mineros, right? When we remember that when the Moneros were discriminated against until World War II and then after World War II, they demanded to be. To be given that they needed to be treated equally. Right? And it was because of the fact that they had fought in the war. Okay? So now the Germans and Italians had done that. But what about the Japanese? Do you think that the Japanese were big in supporting World War I for the United States? No, but they talked about how they joined up in World War II. Right. Well, they did. I mean, the one. The one. I forgot the number, that there was one regiment that was of Japanese descent that they sent to Europe, and everybody wanted them because, as you mentioned, they were ruthless. They. I don't know if you guys have ever heard of this guy, but you should look him up if you. If you don't, because he's a really interesting fellow. His name is Daniel Inouye. He was. He was actually a soldier that he lost his arm in, in World War II in Italy and came back, and he was the senator from Hawaii up until, I think, two or three years ago when he died. Right. Very heroic person. But at any rate, so. So they prove then that their Americanness. Right. You froze. Just a heads up. Should have got Spectrum class canceled. You might want to leave the meeting and rejoin. If you can hear me. I was going to say, if he doesn't talk the next five minutes, I think we'll do it. Okay. I guess we'll sleep with that. But do you see that? You see what I'm. Nope. He had a glitch. Jared, you're the host. Oh, yeah. You have to teach us now. All right. What's today's lesson, bro? Just be cool, I guess. I don't know. I wasn't praying. I wasn't playing for This, y'. All. Whoa. He has so many controls. Yeah, breakout rooms. He got. Pause. Stop recording transcript. It's still recording, though, so maybe I'll make it educational. Do this assignment like a lot of people do this assignment. Yep. Oh, yeah, yeah. I did it as well. I did it. But I'm not gonna lie. I didn't realize we were supposed to be going through. What is it? We got three textbooks or two. Either way. I didn't know we were supposed to be doing all of them at the same time, like 15. Yeah, yeah, I didn't know you were supposed to be doing at the same time. How are y' all gonna study for the test? Huh? Which test? What you mean which test? Wait, we have a textbook on the green. The. The Keen textbook exam that's due tomorrow. And then we have another exam that's in class on Thursday that's on. Wait, there's an exam in class? Yeah. On Thursday? On Thursday, yeah. One's a textbook. Textbook exam. And that's the one that's on canvas. And then the other exam is the one that the study guide that he sent out is on. And then that will be in class Thursday. Wednesday. Oh, Wednesday. My bad. Not Thursday. You're right. What's that shit? Well, honestly, I think the two exams is kind of like helping you out, because the second one's going to be free response, so if you don't know what to write, you're screwed. But the first one, he straight says on it, you can, like, Google and use anything you want. So which one is the good. Which one is the Google one? The one that's on Canvas. Yeah, it's due tomorrow night by midnight. But it says right off you can use anything you want. It's just 90 minutes, 50 questions. I think it's open book. Did anybody take that yet? 50 questions. He's. He says right on it. All the questions are straight from the book. So. So all the questions we've done so far, it said it was on. Yeah. And we were supposed to be answering the questions from the King chapters. I just read it and took notes. Well, there's no. I'm screwed. If you go on the modules, There's a Exam 1 guide and it says right on it. There's like 20 questions the day of the test. He's going to pick 10. You have to answer five. Yeah. If you took notes on the book, you should be fine. Yeah, I don't know. I'll go back and look at some of those questions because I definitely took like two days to Go answer every single one. Because some of them. I thought I knew the answer, but I went back and listened to his lectures, and there was definitely way more in there than he looked for. I did the study guy. I did the study guy when he assigned it, but I lost that. I don't know where that's at. Yeah, well, actually, if you go on, he posted all the lectures and he kind of labeled them. So you can kind of go. It's all in order. But the thing is, you just have to go back and kind of listen to them. Because if you look at the slides, you can kind of see when his lecture is talking and just fast forward. It's a system, but it's totally doable. Where did he. Did we have a lecture where he went over this study guide? Well, each lecture, if you listen, he actually goes over the stuff. But because I didn't realize either that I should have been doing the study guide and the lecture at the same time. That's why. But he goes over and like, he'll like, actually say, all right, you guys get this, because that was in the study guide. So find the zoom recordings, though. I was looking for those. This would be. They're in there. If you go to pages, they're there. But if you actually go to the modules and then where he says the lecture, it'll say below, it'll say lecture video. Not everyone has them, so you kind of got to play with the order. That's why I use the modules, because it keeps it in order. But they're there. And like I said it. I mean, it takes a little bit of time because you got to go back and like, kind of see stuff. But there'll be a section where he's talking straight about the populace party. You'll be able to knock out like three questions. Boom. But snap. Yeah, because I have to redo that. I had it for History one, and that's the way he did it. He made it. So, like, the first test is kind of like a Give me. Like, just, you know, pay attention, use the book. But the second one is like, that's how you get the A, you know, or the better, if you know what you're talking about. It doesn't seem like the tests are going to be that big of a chunk of the grade either. So if you, like, get like a B on it and you have an A on all the other assignments, I don't think it's going to do that much to you. How do we take this in class test? Is he just going to, like, read off the questions or. No, it's going to be. You're going to be on Zoom and then you're just going to do it that way. Yeah, yeah. So it's like, so question. Yeah. Are we allowed to have, like. Because I'm gonna have my kids with me that day. So I'm just wondering if, like, distractions is gonna be a problem with the exam or something, because they got a doctor's appointment. I can't miss that. What time's the doctor's appointment? The same time as our class. And they got my kids. They have them back to back. I would. I was email you just take it after class or something. It's honestly can't be that big a deal. Do not email him. A couple times. He does not answer or get them for days. So you have to, like, 500 inbox things when he. When he screen shares. I'm like, bro, open your emails. You're like, 500. I don't understand. He said he majored, like, in computer science. I need a personal phone number. This is not okay. Yeah, Professor, I need to send you a text message for a voicemail. That's funny. Well, if I was a professor, I was just about to say it's only supposed to be 20 minutes. You shouldn't. I don't know, do we need to, like, hang up and, like, hopefully he tries it gets back on here or what? I mean, I don't know. I wish I could be in, like, the waiting room. I'm just gonna do. I don't even know how to check. No, he wouldn't. I don't think we can check because it's not our. I'm gonna wait. Oh, wait. We were enable waiting room. What does that do? I think he would just join back in. He probably is having Internet problems. Yeah. Yeah, probably because it's. I know my instructor from my first class. She's been having Internet problems. Like, we haven't had class, like, the last three or four sessions because her Internet. Okay, so he can join. Wait, Kyle, just. Is that working? Did that work, Kyle? I guess that did work. Okay. Okay. So I can add people if they join. I just don't know why he's not. Probably Internet went down, so we can't even access. Yeah, true. All right. I guess this just could just be a study period if y' all want just, like, asking questions. Just to confirm. Just to confirm it. You do the textbook quiz or the textbook test by tomorrow, I guess. And then we do the written one in class on Wednesday. Right. Yeah. You should just do it right after this. Just get it over with. If you don't have a class, is there anyone, like, not multiple choice, I assume, right? No, it's short answer. I don't really know. How are we writing him? Like on a piece of paper and then just like showing him. Or like, how are we writing it? One of my professors did is we typed it into an email, like while we were on class and then. Oh, yeah, that means like how he does the text entries or whatever. How is he gonna get the email? I'm going to assume he's gonna open like a canvas assignment. Yeah. Yeah. Did I email my last example? Kind of an extra test for history class. I don't. Damn. Well, this is a first. This is crazy. Not very good. Yeah. Literally the day before the test, he's like, I know it. That's. Whatever. I don't think I submitted my last exam. Our spring break is next week, right? Yeah, yeah, the 29th to the 3rd. I didn't. What? You forget? Look, I didn't submit my exam two weeks ago. For history, everyone. Oh, no. For another class. That's trash. Y' all just reminded me when y' all said email the exam. Damn. Yeah, that's kind of. I'm just telling my bad connection issues. Oh, my professor went down. So did mine. Yeah, that's not really good. And with that class, my. My instructor only counts exam grades and participation because he doesn't. He doesn't have anything set up on canvas first. I'm screwed. Anybody else fucking up in their classes? Oh, yeah. I'm like, way behind on a speech right now. I haven't read the textbook. Are you talking about the keen one? The video? Yeah. I'm gonna wing this. Yeah. I'm literally about to buy. I didn't even think we were reading that one. I thought we were like, dude. Yeah, I definitely bought the wrong version. We have assignments on the mecum one. I actually feel so dumb because it's so confusing to read it usually. It's so confusing to read. They use like three advanced language. I'll tell you one thing. When I'm confused on the questions, I just. My answer. Because I don't know what the they're talking about. I feel like they're super opinion based, though. Like, I feel like it's like, pretty opinionated. Yeah. Like, the short answers will be more. Yeah. Like. Yeah. Because you can be like, you'll have. I feel like some of my answers were kind of smartassy. Especially in Meacham. Chapter One and two. I think I missed chapter three and four. It's not even like I read it, but I got behind in German class, and then I tried to catch up in German, and now I'm behind in this class and I'm just like, you know what, dude? I honestly feel like there's so much work in this class. There's so much reading that you have to do in the questions. Yeah. Kind of the most homework I have out of all my classes. And then this is, like, should have been the easiest. For real. I thought this would have been the easy one because history was easy in elementary and in middle school and in high school and what's like world, we should know this quite a bunch. So let's just start off with the study guide and, like, learning it, basically. Yeah, let's just calm down. So, like, what is. Is that in files? Yeah, it's just like on canvas. And then, like, under the first tab, it says Exam 1 study guide. Let me textbook exam. Describe what? Liberty. What. What is meant by the term liberty? Anyone? He. He had that as democracy, secularism, and capitalism. That's what I got. Yep. But, yeah, democracy. What? Democracy, secularism, and capitalism. He repeated that several times. I'm pretty sure that's all he wants. I did not hear that. Number two, there's still no one in the waiting room. So I think he's just. Yeah, his WI fi. Definitely do this at 10:30 and then we'll be done. I think his Internet just died. I think if you wanted to, you could, but I feel like that the study guide time right now is probably. Yeah, I mean, I was gonna say we should all just try and group study if that works for people. Maybe he did it intentionally. He's like, y' all gotta come together now. Free screen button. And then he. And he dipped out. We probably already signed off and he was just like, I'm not signing back on. It's been too. I don't know. What do I do with the recording? Oh, sorry, sorry. You want me to read number two? Yeah, sure. Okay. I'm still trying to find it. Anyone can do it. Why did Turner think the closing of the frontier in 1890 was so significant? How does Turner describe the importance of the frontier to the American character? I just got an email from him. Yeah, me too. I heard something, but. What does it say? Sorry, folks. Internet just quit. I have no idea when it might be restored. I will probably not be back online today. Please come to class Wednesday prepared for the exam. You can communicate through canvas email. Okay. Well, we're gonna stay on this video. I was gonna say independent study time. I'm pretty sure I remember him talking about the frontier. I can't, like, get it from my memory, though. I'm gonna leave. But it's not because I don't want to help you all. But I haven't done any of these yet. All good. If you don't haven't done any of them. Just join in and have them done. Yeah, join in and get the answers. Wait, have any of you done them? Because I just have a question on, like, number eight, right? I've. I've done most of them. I've done seven for sure. Because, like, eight, I have, like, the elements of the platform were. But I don't know, like, which ones enacted. But like, I don't even really care, I guess, for the answer. But because, like, I have it all done, but there's just, like, small little things that I don't know. Does anybody have any ideas for number eight? Let's see. I don't even remember what I had written. Yeah, yeah, because I'm gonna ask him, I guess, hopefully during his office hours. I'm pretty sure 8's talk about the progressive reforms that the park did. Yeah, but Because I know four of them. It was the popular election of senators, the public ownership of railroads, bimetallism, graduated income tax. But it says which ones were, like, were enacted or like, which ones were, well, graduated income. Graduated income tax. Isn't that a thing now we have. Well, I think it used to be a thing because right now we have something like it. It's called. Because I googled it. It's something like graduated, but it's not graduated. What we do now. But I think all we have. Well, we for sure have the popular election of senators. That's a thing, right? Well, I think the railroad thing actually happened. I believe that happened too. From. I believe worked, but bimetallism was ultimately abandoned, like, way back in the 50s and 40s. And then I think. Yeah, I think all of them actually worked, but I don't know. But I just don't think some of them are around today, that's all. Is that all for number eight? Yeah. Should I try and, like, share my screen? Because I have the PDF if someone wants it and doesn't have. Yep, Put a little up. Pull it up. You got it done. No, no, no. Okay. We need the answers up there. That's what we need. I don't want to give it to you, man. This is a lot of work. But I have written. I got like nine through a few. I can trade you answers. I had all of them. 20. I'll give you number five. Trading out here just goes like. Yeah. I mean, put a lot of effort into this. That's valid. Too much effort, probably. Yeah, true. At least you'll. It's very. Yeah. To get these. You guys were saying you just went back and listened to his lectures. Right. Well, this was my. This is how I did it. I'd go back and look at the lecture slides, and then I would see. Because it says, like, you know, to highlight. You know, I'm talking about the populace party. It's talking about this or that. And then like, go back to the lecture. And then I would like kind of fast forward through the lecture where he was talking about that section just to cut out time, you know, so you're not listening to hours of lecture over and over. A lot of it. He actually doctors some of the video to, like, he cuts out that you don't need and just like leaves what you do. So it's kind of cool that way. All right. For sure. On. Where does that. On canvas ender modules. Let me see. Hold on. Well, I can tell you a couple of things about what it says about which ones were rejected and why. Okay. So that. That would be good. I think that's probably so. The popular election of the US Senators, obviously that happened. Yeah. The public ownership of the railroad. The Americans saw that as communism. So that didn't happen because of that, but I thought it happened. Or is that why it failed? That's why it failed. Okay. I mean, here's the thing. I don't know whether it failed or not, but in my notes. I'm just reading you what my notes say. What about the railroad was communism? They. The public ownership of it. The public ownership of the railroad would help keep the prices down and, you know, make everything the same. But Americans saw it as communism. Okay. The graduated income tax. Americans saw that as socialism. So I don't know if he means which ones were. Which ones finally became law. He didn't. If he talked about that. That I didn't write it in my notes. Yeah, well, that's. That's. This is kind of the stuff I'm looking for, though, just so you have something to talk about when he says it, you know, because this is like, he said that he's looking for a communism and socialism type stuff. Okay. And the bimetallism. I. I just have what it is. I don't have whether it happened or how People felt about it. I think I can google that because that was a big thing. I think it happened after World War II. Number one, number 12, what is bimentalism? Well, it talks about it in another one, but that's actually one of the platforms of a populist party. So it's kind of different. I was gonna say. Yeah, I thought that was like having to like talked about. Yeah. Bimetalist 16 to 1 gold to silver ratio. Silver to gold? Yeah, Silver and gold. Yeah. 16 ounces of silver to 1 ounce of gold. Yeah. And then they traded or like switched it after. Yeah. There wasn't enough gold for the gold standard. So like they thought it would help then also for that question the opposing people favor of greenbacks. I just plan to answer the questions and put little asterisks next to the ones that I really understood and hope that those are on his list. The ones I answered. I'm pretty sure I'll be okay. Didn't you answer all of them? Yeah, that's what I'm saying. I answered all of them. Some of them are like, like, because he has like eight questions in one question. And I won't like know the last why, but I'll know like the rest of it. All right, does anyone like need help on number two? Because I kind of have an idea. Oh yeah, send it. I mean, I said Turner believed closing in the frontier was significant because it got rid of what the. What made the United States unique. Basically the frontier forced people to come more resourceful and self reliant, which in turn created individualistic attitudes that define US democracy. So basically the frontier, in turn, the frontier created resourceful, individualistic people that in turn caused or that in turn made democracy so prevalent here in the United States. So that's my thoughts on it. What was that last part? That basically that the individualistic attitudes created by the frontier is what defined America. America essentially. And the frontier did that. It created individualistic attitudes. We talked about the histiography being today. The histography. Histography, yeah. Sorry. Is that where he's talking about history's history or the study of history? Yeah, that's what he was talking about earlier, before English. What did he say for modernization? It and how it affected domestic and foreign policy? I have no idea. Not gonna lie, I haven't even gotten there yet. What I remember about the modernization was him talking about either modernize or get colonized. Yeah. So you know, colonization that's part of foreign policy and how they didn't want to do that unless it Was to give them democracy or liberty. All about America. America. Colonize. What? What did you say? Modernize or colonize? You think it's modernize or get colonized? Colonize. Colonized. Colonized. Oh, my God. Yeah, Say colonize. Oh, man, I think it's the same thing. Yeah. I mean, yeah, Just getting your shit wrecked. That's all that matters. Okay. I still cannot find these damn slideshows or PowerPoints. Go to the pages, and then you click on the links of the individual pages, the pages tab. So, like, you know, the first one says broken Nation. Yeah. And then click on that one. Okay. And then it should expand you to a different page of, like, a bunch of different. Yeah. The sectional crisis of Civil War, Restoration and Reconstruction. Yeah. Okay, well, the. That one doesn't have. He didn't record for the first week, so then that one didn't have the lecture recording, so that if you go down another. The other one should have the lecture recordings. Maybe not the. Found it. Okay, you right. You right. All right. If you go under. What did I just click on? Industrialize and modernize. I just clicked on something after the Civil War, if y' all click on conference Zoom. On the. If you scroll down to conference zoom, where it has all the home announcements, assignments and stuff. Oh, yeah, you scroll down to conference Zoom, you click on that, It'll take you to the zoom thing, and then there's event recordings there. Should be perfect. Okay, and how do you. There's nothing there. Never mind. Yeah. Lost in the sauce. Damn. The unicheck. All right, y', all, I'm outro. Thank you for all your help you classes. I'm just kidding. Damn, Everybody's leaving. Well, I'm staying in, bro. I'll stay. I need some help. I'm here. Yes. Yeah. Well, I guess people got a free day if they were trying to sleep in. I just sleep in if I got to sleep in. You know what I'm saying? I've only done that for one of his clients classes. I was like, shoot, I was just way too tired. Yeah, I did that last week. I like how. I was gonna say, I like how, like, all my teachers now, they're like, yeah, we'll accept late work. It doesn't matter. Yeah, I was mad, though, when he was set, when he was talking about, like, everything after March 1, because every time he talks about Los Moneros, I was on a trip, and I had no idea that it was due at 9:35am so when I went and I was like, oh, it's gonna be Easy. Like, he's gonna talk about it in class. I can just write the answers down. And he's like, okay, so did everyone do the assignment? And I was like, bro, you're joking. So every time he talks about it, I have no idea what he's talking about. I completely missed it. I was like, that's. To be honest with you, man, that's the only assignments I've been doing. Meacham. Reading it. Like, I haven't done any of that. I don't read it. I. I just go to the page numbers he lists and make an answer off that. I do, too, but I still haven't answered all those questions. Like, yeah, I get. Honestly, half the videos that we were supposed to watch, like, the 20s. And the other one, I couldn't find the video link. Like, every time I would pull up the thing, like, all the. The questions and, like, the submission and everything like that, that stuff would be up there, but the actual link wouldn't be. You don't respond to emails, so it's kind of hard to figure out where I'm supposed to find that. And I'll be on the move a lot, so I mostly be on my phone when I'm on canvas. Ah. I was gonna say it's. Most of them are under modules now. Yeah, I was gonna say most of them are definitely on online. Like, on a computer way more. Yeah. Yeah. But whenever we had, like, with the Good War, I bought, like, the ebook or whatever, and I just hit command F, which means, like, you can search up a word individually. So every time you had a question, I would just look up, like, Japanese and then just go through all the ones that said Japanese. That's a lot. I know. It wasn't too bad. It actually got done, and then I read. I read the whole page. So I, like, actually read something. So it wasn't, like, bad. I wish we had been included in the syllabus that we needed to, like, read all of these textbooks at the same time. Yeah, I could have played better. I got three textbooks for history and I got four books for English. I believe Shot is so confused right now. Or I just have, like, what happened to the professor? I was supposed to buy two for communications. I didn't buy those. I bought the ones for history. I bought the ones for German, and I paid for my online philosophy textbook. Yo, for your dreaming class. What is it? Are you doing German one or. Yeah, I'm behind in that too. I don't know. She wants us to do a whole bunch of flashcards. And stuff. And honestly, I'm already taking notes and flashcards is just wasting my time. The ones you have to, like, submit? Yeah. Oh, yeah. I was gonna say that's. I mean, you don't lowkey have to do them, but I feel like you do if you have to submit them. That's trash. All right, so the last time I just took pictures of my notes, I was like, I'm not doing this anymore. How many of these questions are there? 20, 21. We got six of them, just playing. I got kind of. I got a few done. Who has number one? Let's just go through these real quick. Who is number one? Yeah, Carl, there's democracy, secularism and capitalism. Democracy, however you spell that. Democratics. Okay, cool. I didn't know how to spell secularism, so I just put sec. You and lurism spell it out. Looking back at my notes. And I put capitalism with a Z. Capitalism. Who knew college students couldn't spell, right? This guy. We made it this far. Okay. What'd you say that one was? Democracy. What? Secularism. Capitalism. Secularism. E, C, U, L, A, RSM Secularism of secularism. What was the last one? Socialism. Capitalism. Capitalism. Capitalism. He says social. All right. It's the answer to one of these questions. Yeah. What is histography, and what does histography have to do with Turner thesis and historians? I said the writing of history. Yes, the history of history. The. The writing and interpretation of history. History doesn't change how people look at it. Interpret. Terps, interrupt. And when it comes to Turner in the New West, Turner thought of the West. West expansion as a good thing and New west thought of it as a bad thing. Focusing on the native and bad on expansion. All right. Discuss the strengths and weakness of the frontier thesis versus the inclusion of historians of the West. Was that the next. Yeah, okay. Yeah, yeah. Number four. Turner said good and Indians said not good. Simpleton. There we go. I don't even blame you. I can elaborate later on. I was gonna say I feel like it's acceptable because, I mean, it's literally like Native Americans. But, you know, it's not my fault that it get past the Bronze Age. Damn. I ain't coming in on that. But that was Ralphie May back in the day. Remember that fat comedian Ralphie May? Yeah, I'm only 18, bro. Sorry. Oh, big old fat dude. Number four is the strengths and the weaknesses of the frontier thesis versus the conclusions of historians of the new. Yeah, he had said that it was that the new west thought it was bad and the Other people thought it was good. So that just ties in with number three. Yeah, I'm gonna write three. It goes, it goes into the other one, too, because that's when it goes on a number two also, because that's the, the strength of the frontier was. Had to do with, you know, people becoming individuals and, like, learning to provide for themselves and not. He may as well just made that all one goddamn question. He got, like, five questions anyway. Yeah. Honestly. Oh, Nate, did, Did you get that message? Someone sent you a message on Zoom on campus. Yeah, they said you should probably reschedule your appointments. Oh, yeah, it was on Zoom when you said that you had your appointments. Oh, yeah. But I mean, it's hard to do. I'm just have to talk to him. I can't reschedule those. Yeah, those are kids. If it was my appointment, that'd be different. I got babies. If I was, if I was professor, I'd be like, no, I don't care. Just like, meet yourself, but only for today. Like, if he don't, if he doesn't care that I do the exam while I'm doing the appointment, then I'll be. Otherwise, I'm kind of just like, look, I mean, if you can do an exam like that, I'd say try it, but I mean, that sounds pretty hard in general. Yeah. You got 50 questions and what, 90 minutes to answer it. Yeah. And driving and watching kids. Yeah. And talking to the doctor. Okay, number five. Pro. Proletarization. I don't know how to read down. Proletarianization. Proletariat. I used to know what that word means. Yeah. Who are the proletariat? Lord, I don't know. Proletariat or the working class. Those are not agricultural or trade workers. Workers. No, they got to be factory workers. They have to be because it says what distinguishes them. I have the thing that he definition from that day that he gave us. Go ahead, hit it. The workers who got only a subsistence wage for their labor, and it was caused by the agricultural revolution, which made people move into the cities. I do remember him saying that. So thank you for. You said they got a subsistent wage. They only got a subsistence wage. They got money for food, and that's about it. Yeah. Trash. The workers who only got a subsistence wage for working. He said it was started by the agricultural revolution. Yeah. Shoot. Are y' all trying to go till 11? Because it's 10:32 right now. I mean, I was just going to go until everyone else disappears or. Well, I, I. It says That I can end the meeting whenever. So if y' all are just not, like, just let me know. All right. Number seven. Yeah. Okay. What is meant by the term redemption in regard. I mean, if you quit, someone else will pick it up. No, no, it's because I think I'm. Oh, maybe. I don't know. It says end meeting for me, so. Actually, no, don't do that. I was gonna say probably not. Okay, what is meant by the term redemption in regard to the period following the Civil War? What is it? How did it relate to the outcome of Civil War? How the results in Jim Crow? Oh, my goodness, bro. Was it the redemption, like, when they were trying to, like, get America, like, back on track after the first war? No, that's after Civil War. Yeah. This has to do with, like, slavery, most likely. Oh, that's before the. Damn. Okay. Yeah. Way before World War I. I wish you had to put some dates in here. All right, so let me see. Y' all have that one. Does anybody have number seven? I'm thinking on it. I don't know. I feel like I do know that, but what about you? Copy. I don't have that written down, but redemption. I only know what Jim Crow is. That's the only thing I know. Yeah, same. I'm gonna guess he means, like, for the south to redeem themselves, to become part of the Union during. I was gonna say, like, trying to make up for it or. Yeah, I was trying to unify. And it's related to the Jim Crow laws and outcome of the Civil War because it created resentment between the north and the South. Yeah. Because the north was like, nah, get rid of them. And then the south was like, nah, we're keeping them. So, I mean, sorry, just plain and simple. Okay. This is the way he said it. Yeah. Kyle, can you say that first part again? What you meant by. What is meant by the term redemption? I'm going to guess that. Oh, you're guessing. To redeem themselves from their act of succession. Secession, he said. Yeah. Oh, you talking about. Okay. After succeeding from the Union, trying to get back in. Yeah. Okay. You know, Reconstruction and. How do you say unsexy? Or how do you say this? Okay, whatever. 2. So that's the opposite of join forces. Join forces back with the Union. I need your spells. What the hell? United. That is not how you spell united. I wanted to reunite. There we go. That's the word I was looking for. Session. What? Reunite with the Union? Yeah, with, like, the federal government, because they had their own former government in the. With the Federal government. Where the hell is my car at? You're supposed to be here with my car by now. So we move the next one. Number nine. Yeah, everybody got eight. Yeah, we discussed that earlier, didn't we? Populist platform. That was the part where everybody was talking too much. I didn't hear it. So I got. What was the four elements? Because I only got three things written down. There was popular election of senators, graduated income tax, publicly owned railroads and bimetallism. Popular. Popular senators, number eight. Okay, so if the bimetallism was the 16 ounces of silver to the one ounce of gold, and then there was the socialism and the communism, what would the popular election of senators be considered? Well, that one succeeded. People just liked that one. Okay, a law for democracy. How do you spell that? I'm out of it. The two parties, the, the. I mean the Democrats and Republicans. That's what I was thinking, but for some reason something's telling me that he's talking about two different things. Yeah, I was gonna say, because I remember that back then he was saying that like Democrats were more like conservative and then conservatives were more like liberal and stuff, but earlier like. And then it flipped. But that's all I really remember. Yeah, but he said during the Gilded Age, though, that was the Tories. The Tories. I got number. I got number nine for what? I'll give you that. Let me double check on number eight real quick. Popular selection of centers became law for democracy. Railroads, form of communism. What was the other one before by mellowism? Graduated income tax, which is socialism. According to my notes. That one was done. Also. Graduated income tax. Yeah, that's for number eight. Yeah. Which ones were all done? Okay, Senators and income tax were done. I don't know about my bimetallism, though. I don't think. I don't think the bimetalism became. Become a populist platform because they asked what bimetallism is later on, like four questions down, which is like in different chapters. I don't know, man. I have it written down in my little section about the populace party from that day. All right, cool. Just leave it then. Okay, describe the two party system during the Gilded Age. What were the traditional constituents of each? What are the divisions within? Okay, So I said, oh yeah, this is what I wrote. Republican, pre1912. Big business, social liberal. That's what I. Social liberal against slavery. Hold on. Big business, social liberal against slavery. Yeah, Republicans. And then this is all pre 1912. So pre1912, Republicans were big business, social liberal against slavery. And then the democracy. Or Democrats were for the people. Conservative. Andrew Jackson. There's like the notes from the slide. Yeah. After 1912, they post. Post 1912. Yeah. White supremacy. Big business and concert and conservatives. So that was. Yeah. Republican post 1912 was. That was white supremacy. Put quotes around that. Big business and conservative. And then Democrats post 1912. Woodrow Wilson elected as liberal progressive for the people. Woodrow Wilson was elected what? Liberal progressive president. I'm like, for that. All right, okay. Number 10. I do not have. All right, let me look at it. Patronage. If I remember right, that was the one where you'd be given a job to secure votes. So you would be put in charge of the police force, and in exchange for getting a job, you would vote the way. Oh, yeah, like. Yeah, that the corrupt politicians. Okay, yeah, yeah, sure. This still goes on. Okay. Nowadays it's called the good old boy club. Like, who you know is what gets you in actions are. Yeah. Like, if I don't know you, but you got the same alkaloids as somebody else. But I know that person. I'm gonna take that person over you corrupt politicians. That's not how you spell it, but, you know, that's politicians. What are some benefits and problems? How does civil service reform address these? I remember. Right. The civil service reform was you'd be given the job for your qualifications, not based on political party who you know. Yeah. You said. What was the word you use? Based on your qualifications? Thank you. Oh, civil service reform based on qualifications and not political. Not politically driven. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Underscore. All right, I got number 11, I think. Didn't they have to do with the gold standard and, like, how the silver needed to be used for gold and stuff like that? Almost. So I wrote, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. American currency is only back by the green greenbacks. Soft to hard. You owe 10 times more. Hard as gold, soft as cash. Those are my notes I took while he was talking. Yeah. So, okay, so hard money is gold. Soft money is the cash. People in the States liked soft money like this. Yeah. But if you were to do any abroad trading, you needed a gold standard because. And trade with the British, which. Their stuff was based on gold. Yeah. And their money, their soft money was pounds. Yeah. Soft money domestic. Wow. Hard money. God damn, I'm a idiot. I think we all feel that way. Feels so delayed. I'm like glitched right now in my head. Yeah, that's. That's why I'm out of learning how to spell. Oh, this is being Recorded. Okay, so then. Oh, well, number 12 is bimetallism. How does it propose to solve the money problem? I didn't get the. I didn't get the how to proposes. I explained what it was. It would. It increased the money supply. Oh, okay. So more currency to be introduced into circulation. Yeah. Essentially there was too much paper money in circulation. Yeah. I'd convert into gold. You'd go broke. So I wanted to introduce more metals into the system. I'm over here looking for my damn goods. And what ways was the populist movement response to the industrial revolution? Oh, Jesus. I wrote American economy became more involved in the world's economy. Prices for farm goods decreased increase causing debt to cycle in the farming community. Popular election of U.S. senators. Graduated income tax, public ownership of railroads, Silver gold ratio. What the. That's part of the. Oh, that's the same question as four. Yeah. Or eight. Number eight and 13 are the same. Well, hopefully he'll pick one of those. Or both of them. What were the driving. Yeah. What were the major parties opposed to the popular platforms. Populist platform. What number? 14. Anybody got that one? I feel like they would have been opposed because of the graduated income tax. Partially. And then probably for like other more prominent reasons. I'm pretty sure both of them didn't like it. Both parties didn't like. Yeah. Graduated income tax. Well, the number 14. Yeah. Why were the major parties opposed to the public's platform? Why not? They called them socialist. So every. No one liked the railroad a bit. And graduated income tax was probably not liked by the big businesses. So that means the Republicans didn't like that one. And bimetallism? Maybe not liked by Democrats. Maybe both. Maybe both of them didn't like income tax. Both parties didn't like income tax. Like income tax. Okay, so it's a populist platform. Populist was a socialist. Both parties didn't like the income tax. Nor the public railroad. Yeah, Public railroad and bimetallism. What'd you say for that one? That they didn't like it? It was maybe. It was maybe. Battle ism. What ideological challenges did the party present to Democrats, Republicans or. And both parties. The income tax, public railroad. Neither of them liked the public railroads. Because everyone was communist. Yeah, the big businesses probably didn't. They didn't like the income taxes. Actually, probably no one liked the income tax brackets. Yeah. This is only from the parties, though, like Democrats, Republicans. So I'll just say both parties didn't like the income tax nor the public railroad. Yeah. In what ways? Is progressivism like socialism, positivism, Positive. What the Positivism? Positivism, whatever the fuck is pretty hard. Positivism. Positivism was essentially that society should only be run by trained professionals. Yeah. It's like, have your minister of agriculture be an agricultural scientist, things like that. Trained individuals that you said. Yeah. In those fields, run or operating, we'll say operated or controlled. Would that be like a field of like. Like the government or something? Right. So, yeah. They elected officials. Yeah. The scientists were only, like, elective. Is that. Is that what he was talking about? Yeah. The only scientist should run the world or whatever the government problem. Because not everybody is desperate and not everybody believes that. Yeah. So they wanted to be controlled by people who had knowledge and experience in certain fields. Basically. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry, I was just trying to sub sum up the answer. It's fine. What'd you say, Nate? Say it again. Oh, yeah. Am I glitching? No, I just didn't hear you. Okay. I had to ask because you guys are frozen on my screen, so I wanted to. To make sure I wasn't glitching. Professor, part two. I'm not here. What ways is it. I'm always glitching in class, though, whether it's my video or my sound or.16. What do we say about progressivism? It's like, which number was that moving Forward? Number? Number 15 for 15 says, in what ways is progressivism like socialism and. And positivism? I thought that's what we were just discussing. Okay. I said progressive. 15. 15. 15. Okay. They were like, socialists because they wanted the public ownership of railroads and such. Okay. They were like positivism because they wanted trained officials for certain positions. Okay, that's cool. You're talking about 15 right now when you just said that. Yeah, 15. Yeah. Oh, I put a bunch of stuff. I put, like, communism, social Darwinism, positivism, and progressivism in that whole 15 thing. I think I was just taking notes as he was running his mouth. Damn, I should have done that. That. I can't write that fast and I can't type. Y' all keep talking. I'm like, breath like this. Yeah. Why do you think most of my things are, like, so short? Yeah. I'm literally writing a sentence for each one. Half of my notes are cut off. I'd be like, what he say? And then he. He moves on. And I'm like, what? For the rest of 15, it's different because progressives still wanted to have democracy, so the big positions still weren't by skill, you know, popular election of senators and the like. And. Because the middle class preferred progressive reforms. Yeah, that's what I said. Middle class or progressivism was a middle class idea. Yeah, that's what I kind of said. I'll just ride with that dude who wanted democracy and middle class preferred progressive ideas. Oh, not to spell democracy now. Okay, cool demo. You ever write something so much you forget how to spell it? Yeah. Yeah. Especially when you have don't judge me. I forgot a thousand times. We gotta spell. What? Don't judge me. I forgot how to spell the ones. I was like, how do you spell the. And then I typed it and I was like, oh, yeah. When I was in, like, second grade, I spelled of UV and I was like, bro, retard. Well, see, you were in second grade. That was understandable. I was in first grade and I spelled six with an e instead of an eye. Teacher's like, Yeah. I had a parent teacher conference after that. What an Americans. Okay, so that's crazy. They knew we didn't know how to spell at that age, and yet they had people doing parent teacher conferences for misspelling words, and then they turn out to be different words, but we didn't know. Yeah. What? Whoever was good. Elsa's parents used to tell them. Yeah. My mom always told me to sound it out. She didn't tell me how to spell nothing. Did she know how to spell those words? Yeah. Okay. She just wanted me to figure it out. And when I used to ask her what something means, she used to tell me to look it up. Yeah. Taught you how to be independent. Facts. I do that with my daughter. You hit a blunt right now, didn't you? Sure did. Oh, that's why cameras never. Yeah. No, So I have to. I don't. I don't usually smoke in class, but the instructors I hear, so it's different. All right. Okay. Number 16. Was that the answer? Was the last part. He's not. We 16Americans didn't like communism. We're greedy. You said what? Because we're greedy. Essentially. Yeah. Like what? He was saying, we don't like sharing. Yeah. We don't like sharing. Unless we're the poor. Yeah. Then we want everybody to share. Yeah. It's like that victim mentality. Like, I'm not going to give you anything, but you give me everything. Oh, speaking of. Oh, my goodness. I've hated that. Like, so how old is everybody in this class? Like, how old are you? 23. Okay. I'm 30. Gonna be 31. So when I was in high school, or, like, going through Things. A saying came out. So if you say, no, you couldn't do this, and it was a black person, they'd be like, is it because I'm black? Is that why? Like, I'm from Houston, so, like, I grew up around a bunch of black folks and Mexicans and all that, but it's a big melting pot down here. Yeah. I was gonna say, I got family in Houston. Yeah. So when that came out, it's just like saying that you are playing a victim, even though it's joking or not. Like, some people didn't understand it, how it was being said. So it could be like, oh, no, I'm really offended. It turns into a little white guilt. Like, oh, no, no, no. It's not because of that. It's not because of that. So, like. Yeah, I think that kind of started the whole victimization of things. And, like, I can see it now, but this little book I'm reading called the Choice, I don't know if y'. All. Are y' all taking English 101? No, but I've read it. You read this book? Yeah, I used to read a lot. Yeah, it was all right. Yeah. It, like, going through, like, what I'm going through now, like, figuring myself out, like, getting out of, you know, the military and all this crazy and my own traumas. It's helped me open my eyes and see it from a different perspective and, like, how to do it. Like, you. You can look at a bunch of people and see you're playing a victim. You're playing the victim, you know, like, just because. I mean. Yeah. It doesn't always have to be about, like, race. And, like, if you're just. Yeah. Someone. Or you could just be like. Be like, well, I'm gonna do this. And be like, well, why are you treating me that way? Like, I'm talking to you, but why are you talking to me that way? Like, type of. It's just like. Yeah. Always. Like, you're the one who has to explain, or the mentality of your traumas weren't as hard as mine. Yeah. Like, the comparison, it's like, bro, it doesn't matter. Like, each person is different. Yeah. But I don't know. And that's like, you can have different traumas but have sympathy, and then you can gain empathy from one being through those same traumas or whatever, too. Like, I don't know. This is what I had to say. Like, a lot of people, everybody experiences some form of trauma or hardship. Exactly. But the way that some people internalize it may be different than others. The way that some people may perceive someone else's situation can be different from the way that others perceive it. Yeah, that's where, as you mentioned, empathy comes in. And you just gotta try to be understanding of people. Like, I know lately I've been trying to be more understanding of things, of things that people say and how people act and the things they do. Because like everybody was raised different. Everybody grew up with different ideas and morals and values and things as such. So. And the world is vast, so you just have to be mindful and open minded of other people and other people's ideas and opinions and things. And you just have to be respectful of that. It's not, it's not, oh, it's a white thing, it's a Mexican thing, it's a black thing or anything like that. We're all people. And that's what a lot of people don't understand. And that's where a lot of the racism and attention comes in at. Because when everybody's trying to stay, we're all people. People are just like, okay, well yeah, but we're not gonna treat you this. And then, and then, and then people like to be like, oh, well, all black people are like this. All white people are like this. No, it's not all. It's certain groups of people. Just like there are certain people that are bad and there are certain people that are good. There are certain people who are black, there are certain people who are white. There it like it's everybody. Yeah. So that's where it comes, that's where it comes down to the thing of like being a victim. But as you're only a victim if you internalize yourself as. There it is. That's what she says. That's what. Now if you're just making it, if you're making a joke, that's fine. But at the same time, somebody might not take your joke the way that you expected your joke to come off because everybody perceives things differently. You could have perceived it as a good joke, you could have told it to somebody else and they could have laughed and known that you were joking. But telling it to somebody else, you can make them feel guilty for what it is that they said.