European America. There's a growing feeling of hysteria. Conditioned to respond to all the threats, the rhetorical speeches of the Soviets. Mr. D said, we will bury you. I don't subscribe to this point of view. You'd be such an ignorant thing to do. If the Russians love their children too, how can I save my little boy from Oppenheimer's deadly toy? There is no monopoly of common sense on either side of the political fence. We share the same biology regardless of ideology. Leave me. When I say to you, I hope the Russian love that children. There is no historical precedent to put the words in the mouth of the President. There's no such thing as a winnable. It's a lie we don't believe anymore. Mr. Reagan says we will protect you. I don't subscribe to this point of view. Believe me when I said to. To you, I hope the Russians love their children too. Us, me and you. If the Russians love their children too. Sam. You guys like my song? Yeah, I thought it was pretty good. Professor, do you know why I played that song today? Is it because we're gonna talk about the Cold War? We're gonna talk about Russians. How you guys doing? Did you have a good spring break? Glad to be back. Yeah. I wish I had another week off too, but we'll come up with more weeks off later. Anyway, any questions or comments? Just as a reminder, we're going to be discussing chapters five and six out of the Meacham book on next Monday. So you guys should be ready for that. Any questions at all? Comments? Today we're going to talk about. We're going to start talking about the Cold War. We're do two sections on the Cold War this week. The. The first thing. Let me just go ahead and share the screen here. You guys can see my. My slide set now. Yes. So the first thing about the Cold War is that we have a tendency to think that the Cold War was this time of heightened anxiety between the United States and Soviet Union, but that it wasn't really a war. That's why they call it a Cold War. But in fact, there were millions of people that died during the Cold War. The. The reason why it was called a Cold War wasn't because it wasn't a real war. It was because the United States and Soviets didn't go to war. Instead, what happened was that the United States and the Soviets fought proxy wars. So, for example, in Afghanistan, Soviet troops fought the Taliban, who were supported by the United States. And in Vietnam, American troops fought the Viet Cong and the Viet Minh, who were supported by the Soviets and the Chinese. You follow what I'm saying? So there was no direct conflict between the United States and the Soviet Union, but there was direct conflict. It was through proxies, what they call proxies. Right? So that's the one thing about the Cold War. Let me. Let's talk about when did it start? One of the other, I think, misunderstandings that we have about the Cold War is that it started right at the end of the Second World War, but in reality, it started much earlier. And in order for me to frame this correctly, I have to go back to talking about a little bit about communism. We talked about communism before when we talked about progressivism and the industrial revolution. But the Marxist theory was that the bourgeoisie were owners of property and the proletariat or the workers owned nothing but their labor. And that it created a situation of inequality and oppression. That eventually what would happen would be that the workers would rise up spontaneously and overthrow the bourgeoisie, and then they would take over the means of production. And. And it would. It would be essentially a worker's paradise. Okay, The. The. The way that Marx theorized the. The communist revolution was that. And was that at the end of it, communism would be everywhere. Right? So if. If you were to look at the communist revolution or the Communist Manifesto in historical conflict, in historical context, what Marx was saying was that the. Mark, the communist revolution is going to happen now, and it's going to happen everywhere, and that once it does happen everywhere, then there will be no more need for a state, and. And that everybody will just be living to their. To their potential, essentially. There were a couple problems with that. The first one was that the. The communist revolution didn't happen. It didn't happen now, it happened never. And the communist revolution didn't happen everywhere. It happened nowhere. At least not the way that Marx thought of it. Okay, now, what happens with Marx's theory is that even though Marx. Even though the communist revolution happens nowhere and never, there are many people who still believe that communism will eventually, inevitably take off. One of them is a guy named Vladimir Lenin. You may have heard of him before. Not John Lennon, but Vladimir Lenin. And what he theorized was that the communist revolution wasn't going to be spontaneous, that the communist revolution would actually be a. It would had to be led. And so there was a vanguard, a vanguard, an intellectual vanguard of the revolution that would educate the people and make them realize the situation that they were in. So that. Jaime, you know what? If you're gonna go to the Beach. Go to the beach, buddy. You're kind of. You're kind of distracting there. The. Where was I at? Okay, so. So the people had to be led into the revolution. And, and there was another thing about the revolution too, and that was that the workers, the proletariat, weren't going to be the workers of Europe. Instead, they were going to be the workers in the formerly colonized countries, which we'll talk about here in a few minutes. All right, so what happened then in the Russian Revolution? Actually during World War I, and then afterwards, the Russian Revolution goes on until 1924. In 1924, the Soviet state is established, and it's established on the principle that the Communist revolution has begun in Russia and that it's going to spread from there to everywhere. And so there's still this belief that the Communist revolution can't be completed until revolution, until Communism is successful everywhere. And so beginning in 1924, there's a stated foreign policy of the Soviet Union to export Communism. And the result of that is then that during World. Right after World War I, actually in the United States and in other Western countries, there was a Red scare. You guys have read about that in the book about the Red Scare that happened after World War I because everybody was afraid that there were going to be somehow duped or tricked into becoming Communist. Right. And that kind of subsided a little bit because of other. Other things, but. But really, it never really went away. It's just that the United States and the Soviets end up in an alliance during World War II. And many people believe then that the, the kind of threat of Soviet expansion is over, but it's not. Okay, so what I'm really trying to say here is then that the Cold War was brought about because of the incompatibility of communism and capitalism and the stated foreign policy objective of the Soviets to establish communism everywhere, which meant the destruction of capitalist democracies in the west, including the United States. So the threat was actually real. You can see that the threats were actually real. Questions? Comments about this? Okay, well, come to World War II. The United States ends up allied with the Soviets, but this is really an alliance of convenience. I, I think that the, the way that it was best described was by Winston Churchill when he said that if Hitler invaded hell, he would be allied with Satan. Right? And I think that's kind of the way he felt about it, that the Soviets and. And the Western allies had a common cause in defeating. In defeating Hitler. But the outcome of that was that Americans who were, I think in some ways Naive believed that now that the Soviets had, had been allied with the west, that that after the war was over, that we could live in some kind of peaceful coexistence. And that turns out to be a false hope. What happens is that at the end of World War II in Europe, there's a conference at Potsdam. Potsdam was the palace of the Kaiser in Berlin. And this conference was between the four they call the big four allies. United States, Britain, France and the Soviet Union. And the idea was to come up with a new security plan for post war Europe. But it was at this conference that the Soviets refused to cooperate. They said, we're no longer going to cooperate with the West. And they adopted this attitude of aggression against the West. All right? And one of the kind of outcomes of that was that at the end of the war. Let's just take a look at this map here. At the end of the war, the Soviet troops had reached essentially where the line is between the purple and the everything else. And, and they stayed there. Okay, they had made, they had made agreements before that there would be established democracies in, in Eastern Europe, but the Soviets refused to allow that to happen. And they essentially closed off what was left of Europe, or at least that part of Europe that they had, that they had occupied during World War II. Okay. And so that causes a lot of consternation among the, the Western Allies, particularly United States, because they, they, they're faced with this new conflict and they really am not sure how to respond. Okay, so, so now we get the name of the Iron Curtain and the kind of the sense of the Cold War from an incident where a speech that was given by Winston Churchill in Missouri with Harry Truman on, President Truman on the stage where he says that an Iron Curtain has fallen across the continent of Europe. And that's what he's talking about essentially is that line between the purple and everything else. Okay, and, and that sets the stage then for this Cold War. All right, you guys are with me. Questions, comments about any of this. All right, so now again, the Americans are kind of taken aback. They don't really understand what's going on with the Soviets. And so there was a, an American diplomat in Moscow. His name was George Kennan and he had been in Moscow for a long time. He wasn't the ambassador, he was a diplomat. And so they asked Kennan to tell them what was, what were the Soviets up to, what was their strategy. And he ended up writing an 8,000-word-telegram that ends up becoming known as the long telegram. You want to Know why it's called the long telegram? Why is that? Because it was long. So at any rate, this is what he had to say, okay. He said that Soviet policy is motivated by European political history. Okay? So let's think about European history in the last century, okay? Before this happened, in the last century, Russia has been invaded twice by the Germans, okay? And Russia had been starved out during World War I because their enemies controlled this territory. You guys are with me. Okay, so. So the. So. So Soviet interest then is going to be in establishing a buffer zone that will prevent them from being invaded by Germany and in taking control of this area here. Okay, you guys are with me. And then on top of that, there is a commitment on the part of the Soviets to try to spread communism by whatever means necessary. So, so that means that if they need to invade, they'll invade. If they need to. To work to undermine the countries that are already. That are. Are democratic, then they will do that. Okay? So. So there's a really kind of a twofold strategy on the part of the Soviets. One is to kind of overcome these historical set or historical deficiencies. And. And the other one is to continue to spread communism in Europe. Okay? So there the Soviets are not interested in peaceful coexistence again, because they need. The idea is you need to spread communism everywhere in order for it to work anywhere. And so Kennan advocates what's known as a policy of containment. And. And what this means is that they view communism in Russia kind of like a cancer. Okay? It's a cancer that you can't operate on it, you can't remove it, but you can keep it from spreading. And that's the way that the idea of containment is to oppose the spread of communism from the Soviet Union. All right? He also noted the Soviet power was impervious to the logic of reason, is highly sensitive to the logic of force, which means that you can't reason with the Soviets. You can only rattle sabers with them. Right? And then finally, he was Cannon predicted that if the United States, or excuse me, if the Soviets were aggressive and they were met with opposing aggression, eventually they would back down before they went to war. So that's where they come up with this policy known as brinksmanship. Brinksmanship is the idea that if you. If the Soviets push, you push back with the equal force until you reach the brink of war, and then the Soviets will back down. So kind of keep that in mind for a later date. Okay. Questions? Comments about any of this? Well, now, Kennan was really astute in his analysis of Soviet policy, the problem was that, if you'll notice, Kennan was talking about Europe. He wasn't talking about the world, and the United States was thinking about the Cold War in world terms, not in just European terms. Right. And so what ends up happening is that the United States employs the strategy of Kennan that Kennan suggested, not just in Europe, but around the world. And here's the reason why that's going to be a problem. And we'll talk more about this as we go through this. The reason why is because there's actually two different things happening at once at this period of time from 1945 and really until the 1990s, there's the cold War, which is an ideological struggle between the United States and the Soviet union. But between 1945 and 1965 is also the era of decolonization, where all the European powers will lose their colonies. And one of the. One of the outcomes of the. Of decolonization is it leaves a number of countries with economies that have been devastated by colonialism. Colonial. Colonial rule essentially ruled the country for the benefit. For the economic benefit of the mother country, as we've already mentioned. Right. And that means then that when they're left without the. Without, when. Without the colonizer there, their. Their economy is basically devastated. And when you don't have anything, then socialism looks like it might not be a bad idea. So there were a number of places in Africa and Asia and in the Americas where the economies have been devastated by colonialism and they experimented with socialism. Okay? Now, the thing that I want to point out here is I'm not trying to defend socialism, but what I'm trying to say is that these different places, like Guatemala, for example, or Chile or Iran even, are going to be. The movement towards socialism there is not going to be motivated by the Soviet Union. It's going to be motivated by poverty. But when the United States sees communism, it associates it with the Soviet Union. And so from the point of view of the United States, anywhere there's communism, Moscow's behind it. It's this idea of the monolithic world communist movement based in Moscow, right. That anywhere you see communism, that Soviets are behind it. And that means then that anybody that is working toward socialism or communism is allied with Moscow and therefore an enemy. Do you follow what I'm saying here? So we just kind of keep that in mind as we go along. All right? Questions? Comments about any of this? All right. So when we think about the strategy of the United States against the Soviet Union, we can Think about it in terms of three pillars, right? Or three policies. A kind of a three legged policy. And the policy is ideological, economic and military. All right, so I'm going to go through some historical events that show where these policies were devised. All right? Starting with the Truman Doctrine. After World War II, the economies of Europe were destroyed, essentially, right? All. All of Europe, okay. And when there, when there's economic unrest, there's also going to be social unrest. And what we saw in Greece and Turkey was a, a movement toward. There were some communist insurgencies, essentially. Right. Communist revolutionaries trying to overthrow the governments of these countries that were being encouraged by the Soviets. And the Americans became convinced that if they didn't step in to somehow help Greece and Turkey that they would become communists. And so Truman went to Congress and asked for money to support the democratic governments of Greece and Turkey against the Soviets. And at the same time, he announced the Truman Doctrine. And the Truman Doctrine was that the United States would oppose the spread of communism anywhere. Okay? And so that becomes the ideological underpinning of the rest of the, of the rest of the strategy. Because what that means is anywhere we see communism in the world, we see the Soviets and we're going to oppose it. And that means anybody that is communist is our enemy. All right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Okay, the second one is economic. It's, it's the Marshall Plan. Right? And what happened was that the American Secretary of State George Marshall announced a plan to help to rebuild the economy of Europe after the war. And what he did was, what the United States did was called a conference for all the countries of Europe to come together to form a plan for recovery and that the United States would pay for it. Okay? So, so in fact, who was invited to it was all of the countries of Europe, including the Soviet Union and all of the Eastern European countries. But they didn't participate, obviously, because the reason for the conference was to oppose communism. Right? But these other countries did. The other countries came together and they presented a plan for economic recovery, and the United States paid for it. Okay? And this was probably the single most successful American foreign policy initiative ever. Because what happened was that within not too long a period of time, the economies of Western Europe start to recover. And then the idea of people wanting to be socialists kind of passes. Because you guys will remember that we said that the, the only reason why, the only time socialism seems like a good idea is when you don't have anything, right? If, if, if you have a car and I don't have a car, I think it would be a great idea for me to lend your car. For you to lend me your car. But if I have a car and you don't have a car, I think you should get your own car, right? And, and that's the deal here. Nobody had a car, so everybody thought, hey, we should, we should share everything, right? But then when we start to be able to buy cars and houses and refrigerators and stuff like that, then it's like, well, I don't want to share. I don't want to share it with you guys, right? So communism no longer seems like a great idea. You guys get what I'm saying? So this works. The, the Marshall Plan actually works. Okay, questions, Comments about that? The third pillar is military. All right. One of the things that after, after World War II, maybe is not quite well known is that both Churchill and Stalin. Excuse me, Lenin. Sorry, I'm sorry. No, Stalin was right. And Stalin were proposed to continue the war, that Churchill thought that they should overrun Eastern Europe and take out Moscow. And Stalin thought that he should continue to fight against the Western Allies until he had taken over all of Europe because they could foresee a long conflict ahead. But they didn't continue the war. Instead they stopped it. And where we see the line where the Soviet troops had stopped, we can see the city of Berlin, which was the capital of Germany, is 100 miles inside Soviet controlled territory. You guys are with me. And if you look at this map, you can see at the end of the war there had been a conference where Berlin had been divided into four different areas for the Americans, the British, the French and the Soviets. And then later the three Western allies would be joined into one area. So there's Western Berlin and eastern Berlin. Right. And what happened was there was supposed to be joint administration, but because the Soviets were no longer cooperating, that really left this little area as an isolated island in the middle of Soviet territory. You guys are with me. And the only way that you could get in or out or get anything in or out was by a single road that connected Berlin with West Germany and by an air corridor. Okay, so, so what happens is in 1947, Stalin closes the road with some. Many people will argue the reason he did that was he was, he was trying to provoke the west into attacking so they could continue the war. But instead of attacking, what ends up happening is that the United States mounts an airlift or the Western Allies, I guess you could say, mount an airlift where everything that was needed in Berlin was airlifted in over a period of almost a Year. And then after almost a year, Stalin backed down. The road was reopened, and it stayed that way until 1993. You guys are with me. Questions? Comments? And then the threat that West Berlin posed to the Soviet Union was that the Americans of the western west had said anybody that escaped from Eastern Europe into West Berlin would be granted asylum. And, and so what happened was many people were, were trying to escape the Soviet Union and Soviet influence by crossing the line between east and West Berlin. And that's why eventually the, the Soviets built a wall, the Berlin Wall. It happened and they put it up in 1961. All right, questions? Comments? About any of this? Okay, so the, the, the main outcake outcome of that particular incident was that it showed that the Soviets still had military ambitions in Europe. And so to counter that, the United States formed an alliance called the Native. Nate. Excuse me, North Atlantic Treaty Organization or NATO, which was, which was created for the expressed and sole purpose of preventing Soviet expansion in Western Europe. Okay, so, so there we have then our three pillars. We have the ideological pillar. We're not going to allow the spread of communism anywhere else. The economic pillar was going to help rebuild struggling economies, and the military pillar, which is that we're going to oppose any military expansion by the Soviets. All right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Well, again, one of the things that you'll notice here is that this all has to do with Europe. One of the problems with the American strategy is that they extrapolated this strategy to work throughout the world. Okay, so throughout the world, the United States were not going to allow the spread of communism anywhere, even though the Soviets aren't behind communism everywhere. Right. The United States said we're going to use money to support economic recovery, but they used money to support economic recovery in, in countries that never had an economy to recover. So basically the money just gets poured down the drain into the pockets of American supported dictators. And the United States then forms military alliances around the world which will eventually lead to American involvement in Southeast Asia. Okay, questions? Comments? About any of this? All right, now another thing, and I've already mentioned this, but I want us to touch, kind of really understand it, and that is that there's really two different things going on at once. From 1945 until about 19, well, 1993, really. We have the Cold War, which is this ideological war between the United States and the Soviet Union. And we have decolonization, which is the independence of many of the former, or really most, almost all of the former colonies. Okay. So when we look at this, this Particular drawing here, this particular map you can see in the, in the upper, in the Northern Hemisphere, we have the Americans and their allies in blue, right? And we have the Soviets and their allies in red, all right? And so when we think about the conflict, we think about it as between two worlds, right? If in the west we call the Western world the free world, it's like Neil Young, keep on rocking in the free world, right? And in the, in the Eastern countries we call it the communist block, right? Okay, so this is the first world and this is the second world, all right? And one of the, one of the kind of outcomes, all right, I guess one of the strategies of the, of both sides really, the Soviets and the Americans was to look at the world in terms of two worlds, the first world and the second world. You're either free or you're communist, all right? And they really kind of expected that from every other country. And so we could see the United States approaching different countries and saying, we support democracy, we're on your side, but you have to choose us. You have to be on our side. And the same thing with the Soviets, right? The Soviets are trying to spread communism to all of these countries because I mean, they think it should go everywhere. Right? So the point is then that at this point in time, the Americans and the Soviets both expect all the other countries of the world to choose sides. Are you for us or against us? You guys are with me. But there's going to be one leader of a formerly colonized country, Nehru in India, who's going to say, well, we don't believe that either the Soviet Union or the United States has our best interests at heart. We think that the Soviets are trying to use us as a tool or Soviets and the Americans are trying to use us as a tool. And so what we want to do then is to remain neutral. And so he formed a group of countries that were called the Non Aligned Movement. Non aligned mean that they're not aligned either with the communists or with the Americans, but they're aligned together. So many of these formerly colonized countries then end up being non aligned. All right? And eventually that will become the third world. All right, so the first world is United States, Second world is the Soviet Union or the Communist bloc. And then the third world are the non aligned countries. Okay, but now if I were to say, if I were to ask you, how would you describe a third world country? What would you say? Poor. Exactly, poor. And, and the reason for that is because as these countries were formerly colonized countries, they were economically disadvantaged really not, not developed at all or underdeveloped. And the result of it is that they're poor. And so we come to associate Third World with any poor, poor country. In fact, we'll look at, maybe look at places in the United States that are poor and say, oh, well, that's like a third world country. Right. But in reality, Third World has to do with political alignment and the, in the Cold War and not really. Has not really economics. You guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Now, the only reason why you need to know that is because when you're at your next academic cocktail party and people start talking about the Third World, you can say, well, did you know that the Third World is actually alignment? And that's going to be. You guys do go to those parties, right? Anyway, so that's there. That's where we get Third World from. All right. Questions? Comments? Okay, last thing. At the end of World War I, this is, this is, I'm gonna say this is related, but it's a little bit, it's kind of a. Turning the page a little bit. Okay. At the end of World War II. I should go back before World War II, beginning around the beginning of the 20th century, Korea had been dominated by Japan. And at the end of the war, Japan was forced to withdraw. And Russia actually entered the war at the end of the war after Germany had surrendered. And so Russia claimed to have influence over the northern part of the Korean peninsula, and the Americans claimed influence over the southern part. Okay. The dividing line with the 38th parallel. And what happened then in the north was that they established a Soviet style Stalinist regime, and in the south, they established an American style capitalist regime, democratic. Okay, you guys are with me. But what happened was that the Soviets saw, saw an opportunity to unify the Korean peninsula because the South Korean military was very weak. All right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Now let's go back and think about World War I and think about the League of Nations. Why did the United States reject the League of Nations? Wasn't it because the Senate voted? No, the Senate didn't want it. Right. But why did they not want it to remain neutral? Not necessarily. Remember, it had, it didn't have to do with being neutral. It had to do with sovereignty. Right. Who actually declares war in the United States? Is it the president? Well, it is now, but it's not supposed to be in the Constitution. It's, it's Congress. And remember that the League of Nations would have made it possible for some foreign country to entangle the United States in a war without a declaration of war. Right, okay. So, so the United States rejected the League of Nations, but after World War II formed another very similar organization called the United Nations. And it was based on the idea of collective security, just like Wilson's League of Nations. And the United States was in it. And what that meant was that the United States was obligated to respond to aggression by another country against a member nation. Right. Okay. South Korea was a member of the United Nations. So when this, when the North Korea invaded South Korea, President Truman went to the United nations and asked for a declaration of war, and the United nations declared war on North Korea. And then Truman went to the Congress and asked for money. Right. So it, it looks very much like what the Senate was, was afraid of actually did end up happening. Right? Because no, the United States, the Congress has not declared any war since World War II. Right. These wars have all been declared essentially by the President. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Okay, so now when the north invaded the south, they almost won. They pushed the, so the, the southern forces all the way back to this little perimeter here. But then when the United States got involved, the American commander in the Pacific, Douglas MacArthur, is going to, in, I don't even know how you would say it, he would, he would create or, or execute an invasion like the D Day invasion, but much bigger actually, in Incheon, which cuts the northern troops and so the northern troops are pushed back. And then the United States is faced with the alternative of ending the war where it had begun or pushing the communist forces out of North Korea. And the kind of place where we would see some caution there was that China had warned that if the United States invaded North Korea, they would also get involved in the war. But Americans, particularly MacArthur, were not too concerned about China because they had fought, they had just fought a long revolution and they were not really as advanced militarily as the Americans. And so they thought that the Chinese intervention really wouldn't make much of a difference. Okay. Even if they did intervene. And so Truman gave the go ahead to go ahead and push the Communists out of North Korea. You guys are with me. Questions? Comments? The problem was that the Chinese actually did invade. And even though they didn't have a great powerful or advanced army, they had lots of people. Right. And so eventually what ends up happening is that the Americans get pushed back. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Now, when the Americans are start to be pushed back, to start to lose, right? One of the things that MacArthur will do is he'll go to President Truman, and he'll say, we should just drop nuclear bombs on China. Atomic bombs, Right. But by this time, the Soviets actually have developed nuclear weapons. And so Truman realizes that it's no longer possible to use all of the force that you have. Right. The idea of total war is now passed. You can't use everything that you've got, because if the United States entered the war with or escalated the war into a nuclear war, then the Soviets could respond also with nuclear weapons, and that would be the end of everything. Right? So Truman tells MacArthur he can't use nuclear weapons, and because of that, MacArthur is going to publicly criticize the president. Now, what's wrong with that? He's employed in the military. Right. And. And you can't make fun of your boss. You can't make fun of the president. Right? Yeah, exactly. That Truman was his boss. Now, here's kind of the dynamic was this. Americans thought that. That Douglas MacArthur was a great hero because he had won the war in the Pacific, right? And they were not that enthusiastic about Truman. So Truman actually took a lot of flack, but he ended up firing McArthur. Right. And MacArthur then went to West Point and gave a speech and said, old soldiers never die. They just fade away. And then he died. So I guess he was wrong about that. But at any rate, the point is that. That this showed that the era of total war is over. Right? And. And this is where we start to see proxy wars. All right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? All right, now we're going to change the subject here just a little bit once more, right? And that's going to be. Oh, let me just mention to finish this up, right. That eventually what ends up happening is that they. They agree to an armistice. An armistice is not a treaty. It doesn't end the war. It just. It's just a decision to stop fighting for now, right? And that's exactly the way it is today in theory. The United States is still at war with North Korea, and North Korea is still at war with. With the United States and South Korea. Right? And this is why it's so troubling whenever the North Koreans start rattling their nuclear weapons, because the war has never been ended. Do you guys get what I'm saying? That the war is still technically happening now? You guys got that? Questions? Comments? All right, okay, so let's go back. And now here. Here's another aspect of the Cold War. And you guys are going to be reading and commenting on chapters 5 and 6 of the Meacham book. And we're going to discuss it on Monday. Next. Next Monday. Right. And it does a really good job of talking about the Red Scare and kind of the atmosphere that, that surrounds the idea of communism in the United states in the 1950s and 1960s. Right. So the Red scare essentially is the idea that Americans have that the Soviets are coming to get you. Right. That, that the reds are coming to get you and that if we aren't careful there, we're going to somehow end up being duped into communism. Right. Now there's a big problem with this fear. It is just a fear, all right? It's not that the threat wasn't real. The threat was real. Remember we said that the Soviets said that if they could, they would destroy the United States. Right. The problem is the Americans are not going to fall for communism. Right. Why, why do Americans not like communism? Because they like stuff. Because we like our stuff. Exactly. We don't want it to share our stuff. Right. And so, and so the idea then that somehow the communism is going to sneak in and take over was, was really not realistic. Okay. Nevertheless, people bought it. And all you had to do then during the 1950s and 1960s was accuse somebody of being a communist. And, and that was the end of them. That was the end of their career. Right. And there was a certain politician who actually made a, a career out of that. His name was Joseph McCarthy. He was a senator from Wisconsin. And what he did was one day he announced that he had a Secret list of 100 people in the State Department who were actually Soviet spies. Right. He never produced this list. Nobody ever saw the list. Right. But it was enough to get people riled up. Oh my God, there's communists in the State Department. Right. And the next thing you know, he's holding hearings, anti communist hearings, Right. In the Senate. And he becomes a big star. He's a, he's a, he's a, he's a, he's a polarizing figure, but he's also, he's also weaponizing the fear of the people of communism. And it ends up being like a witch hunt. I, I know this has been an overused term in the last few years. Right. But the idea behind a witch hunt is that if you go looking for witches, you're going to find them. You know what I'm saying? And, and this is that once you start looking for communists, all you had to do was accuse somebody being a communist and it would ruin them. That's one of the reasons why they accused Martin Luther King of being a communist. Right. Martin Luther King was not a communist. He couldn't be a communist because he was a Christian, right? But nevertheless, they said he was a communist. And so a lot of people, oh my God, he's dangerous because he's a communist, right? So here's what happens is that McCarthy actually uses these, these. So what I'm looking for, he uses these hearings to kind of promote himself. But eventually, eventually people kind of. Well, the big problem that he had was he took on the army and, and that wasn't a smart move on his part. And it ends up with a series of hearings where people are going to recognize essentially what, what, what McCarthy's up to, right? And I'm going to show you a couple of clips here. The first one is a clip of one of the hearings. This is the hearing where McCarthy really is, is exposed to the public. And, and I'm not going to show the whole clip, but just watch a little part of it here. May I say that Mr. Wells talks about this being cruel and reckless. That's McCarthy. He was just bathing. He has been bathing Mr. Cohen here for hours, requesting that Mr. Cohen, before sundown, get out of any department of the government anyone who is serving the communist cause. Now I just give this man's record, and I want to say, Mr. Welch, that it has been labeled long before he became a member as early as 1944. We know he belonged to the Lawyers Guild. And Mr. Cole nods his head at me. I did you, I think, no personal injury, Mr. Cole. No, I meant to do you no personal injury. And if I did, I beg your pardon? Let us not assassinate this lady further, Senator. Look, look, you've done enough. Have you no sense of decency, sir? At long last, have you left no sense of decency? Listen, I know this hurts you, Mr. Welch. I'll say. I say, Mr. Chairman, as a point of personal privacy, I'd like to finish this, Senator. I think it hurts you too, sir. I'd like to finish this. I know Mr. Cohen would rather not have me into this. I intend to, however. And Mr. Mr. Welch talks about any sense of decency. It seems that Mr. Welch is pain so deeply. So that guy that we. You guys can hear me? I can't see you guys anymore. So can you hear me? I can hear you. I can hear you. Yeah, that guy that showed, the younger looking guy, his name is Roy Cohn and he was MacArthur's McCarthy's right hand man. He also ended up being Donald Trump's right hand man in New York, right? So I think that when you read the Meacham book about the career of Joseph McCarthy, I think that you're going to find it quite interesting some of the parallels that you see to today's politics. Right, okay. So I want to show you then, this, this last clip is. It's a man named Edward R. Murrow. He was kind of this, the. The. The. What's the word I'm looking for? Walter Cronkite. Before Walter Cronkite. Right. And one of the things you'll notice is that he's actually smoking cigarettes on TV. Right. But he, he responded to McCarthy's tactics kind of at the end of this, at the end of his. His run here and just want. I want you to hear what he had to say. Earlier, the Senator asked, upon what meat does this our Caesar feed? Had he looked three lines earlier in Shakespeare's Caesar, he would have found this line, which is not altogether inappropriate. The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves. No one familiar with the history of his country can deny that congressional committees are useful. It is necessary to investigate before legislating. But the line between investigating and persecuting is a very fine one. And the junior Senator from Wisconsin has stepped over it repeatedly. His primary achievement has been in confusing the public mind as between the internal and the external threats of Communism. We must not confuse dissent with disloyalty. We must remember always that accusation is not proof and that conviction depends upon evidence and due process of law. We will not walk in fear, one of another. We will not be driven by fear into an age of unreason. If we dig deep in our history and our doctrine and remember that we are not descended from fearful men, not from men who feared to write, to speak, to associate, and to defend causes that were, for the moment, unpopular. This is no time for men who oppose Senator McCarthy's methods to keep silent or for those who approve. We can deny our heritage and our history, but we cannot escape responsibility for the result. There is no way for a citizen of a republic to abdicate his responsibilities as a nation. We have come into our full inheritance at a tender age. We proclaim ourselves as indeed we are the defenders of freedom wherever it continues to exist in the world. But we cannot defend freedom abroad by deserting it at home. The actions of the junior Senator from Wisconsin have caused alarm and dismay amongst our allies abroad and given considerable comfort to our enemies. And whose fault is that? Not really his. He didn't create this situation of fear, he merely exploited it, and rather successfully. Cassius was right. The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves. Good night and good luck. Earlier, the senator asked upon what. Okay, good night and good luck. What did you guys think? Tell me about that. I. I think. I think I agree with him. Like, he's right. Like, default is not in our stars, but in ourselves. Like, McCarthy would just keep attacking other people, but then he is really becoming the problem. Spreading more irrational thoughts of anti communism, I guess. Mm. One of the reasons why I think it's important for us to study history is because sometimes the things that. That happen in history apply to us. What do you guys think? Does this apply to us today? Yes. Okay, tell me about it, Christina. How does it apply to us with, like, the riots going on right now and, you know, people freaking out about that and. And the Trump and, you know, all that stuff that, you know, people don't. People have the same problems, you know. Okay, so here's what I want you guys to do. I want you to. Hopefully you can go back on. On the Canvas website. You can see all. All of these slides, and you can watch this video again. I'd like for you to watch these videos after you've read chapter six of the Meacham book, and then we'll talk about it on Wednesday morning. How does that sound? You guys are good? All right. Yeah, that sounds good. Good night and good luck. Live long and prosper. Thank you, Professor. Have a good day. You too. Thank you, Professor. Professor, I had a question about a map you showed earlier. Yeah, I saw that Albania was under Soviet control, but Yugoslavia wasn't. Right. How did they get through Yugoslavia and take over Albania like that? Well, Yugoslavia was a. Was a. It was really under the control of the Soviets. It just wasn't part of the Warsaw Pact. Okay, so the Warsaw Pact was like the. A pact between Russia and China. Right. Or Korea. No, it was between all the Eastern European countries. It was like the Soviet answer to NATO. So if you go ahead and look at the map, this is the map here you're talking about. Right. All of the purple countries are the Warsaw Pact, and all the green countries are NATO. And then all the yellow ones are theoretically neutral. But Yugoslavia was really under the control of the Soviets. All right, well, that makes sense. The map makes more sense to me now. Thank you very much. All right, Any other questions? Not much else. Have a good day, Professor. All right, you too. I hope you guys. I hope you guys have a good week.