Record they shine in silver and gold Duck from your eyes as black as cold Walk on by Walk on through Walk to your and don't look back for here I am Carnivore the wheels fly and the color spins through Alcohol Red wine that punches the skin Face to face In a dry and waterless place Walk on by Walk on through so I see your love song head on But I I think you know Come on, take me away Come on, take me away Come on, take me sa. Not a tear no not I stay in this time Stay tonight Ever after this love is how many Christ, Sam. Does anybody know what the unforgettable fire is? The bombing of Hiroshima. Right. The atomic bomb. How you guys doing today? Questions? Comments about anything? Quick question, Professor. Okay, the. You said that the textbook exam the week before. Right. So that means we're gonna get like, half the days between that and this. Yeah, it'll be done by the end of this week. Okay. All right. It's all going to be online. That's going to be all online. Okay. That answer your question? Yes. Okay. Any. Any other questions or comments? Actually, so we're gonna take it, like, through canvas, right? Right. It's just going to be something you're going to add on to the modules, I assume. Yeah. I'll send you the link. You'll see the link on it. Okay. For sure. Yeah. Any. Any other questions? Could I just. For 30 seconds at the end of class, if you don't mind. Well, hopefully, if we have 30 seconds, but I'm gonna time you, though. All right. I'm kidding. All right, just so you know, I was reading the. The. Was it the transcript from the chat room last Wednesday? And so Anita and Jared, I want you to know I actually was born in Aguadilla, Puerto Rico, so we have three Puerto Ricans here today. Okay. So. So we're going to talk about World War I before. And we're on Monday, just so you know. Monday we're going to do the discussion on the good war. Right. I think that you'll. If you. How many people have started reading that book? Anybody? Come on, you guys. You're gonna. Really. You'll like it. It's not. I'm not kidding. You're gonna. You're gonna. I think you'll find it to be the best reading experience you'll have in this class. All right. And anyway, we're going to talk about that on Mondays. That's. And then that's pretty much it. And after that, we have the midterm on Wednesday. And then we have spring break, which I'm sure that you guys are going to be bummed that we can't meet for a whole week, but we just have to deal with it somehow, right? It's just the way life is. Anyway. All right, questions? Comments? Before I get started, let me go ahead and share the screen here. Okay. You guys see my total war again? Yes. Okay. To start with, when we talk about World War II, we have to really connect it to World War I. And some people actually say that World War II was really a continuation of World War I, except that another way of thinking about World War II is that it really wasn't one war. It was really three wars that were all happening at the same time. And one war was between the Western powers in Japan, and one war was between the Western powers and Germany, and one war was between Soviet Union and Germany. All right. And we want to kind of think about it that way as we go through here when we look at the seeds of it. We're going to take. I'm going to show you here a couple things, right? The first thing is that after World War I, you will recall before World War I, the United States stayed out of world events. The United States didn't get involved in European affairs, and that they really broke that position when the United States got involved in World War I. But at the end of World War I, even though the United States won, many people in the United States are going to think of it as a great mistake. And a lot of people are going to say, United States shouldn't get involved in world affairs. And. And in the 1930s, eventually, by the end of the 1930s, the United States will have a Republican Congress. And the Republican Congress is going to be very concerned about the United States getting involved in a war. And so they'll pass neutrality acts, basically saying the United States is going to stay out of any war that happens. All right? And this was really to counter the President, Franklin Roosevelt, because Franklin Roosevelt was very much like Woodrow Wilson in the idea that the United States should back democracies in the world and should stand up for democracy in the world. Okay? And he saw what was happening during the 1930s and. And believed that at some point the United States was going to have to get involved in it. Okay? So we kind of keep that American tension there in the background as we talk about the. A couple of other things, right? So the first one we're going to talk about is Japan. And. And you'll remember that what happened in. In Japan during the Depression was that the military took over essentially, and they decided to solve the economic problem in Japan by invading China and Manchuria. Right. And so there's going to be. The Japanese are going to set out on a course of conquest, and they're kind of declared purpose was to create a Japanese empire out of all of East Asia. And what that meant was that as they continued to interfere, intervene in these different countries, it put American interests in the Philippines at risk because you'll recall that the Americans actually own the Philippine islands now. All right. And govern the Philippine islands even though it's not a state. All right. So that's going to keep Woodrow Wilson, and I'm sorry, not Roosevelt, very much concerned about. About Japanese expansion in Asia beyond the fact that he's against this idea of imperialism to begin with. Right. Okay. So there's a lot there. There arises a tension between the United States and Japan over its expansionist policies in Asia. Now, one of the things that we should probably mention is that decided to set out on a course of conquest is because they were an industrial country like the United States, but they didn't have control of their own resources like the United States. And so like the European powers, they set out to. To gain those resources by conquest. Right. And so again, the idea here is that Japan is. Is expanding to. To support its industrial plan. The United States is also a rising industrial power. But it doesn't. It does. It has control of its own resources. It has mills. It has or, you know, for creating steel and, and growing food and all. All sorts of things. So they don't need any really. They don't really need an Orbices empire. Right. And so as one of the leverages against the Japanese, and again, in trying to defend the Philippines, Roosevelt made a decision to cut off American trade with Japan, essentially declared an embargo against industrial goods to Japan, which meant that the United States couldn't sell metal and couldn't sell wood to Japan. Okay. Now, again, the United States, if Japan had done that to the United States, it wouldn't hurt the United States. But this is very painful for the Japanese economy. And so what the Japanese decide to do is they put in place a plan where they're going to expand their empire to essentially everything that's inside this green line. That's their idea. Right. The idea is we're going to expand our empire. We're going to do it all, all in one great big, huge offensive. We'll take over all these islands. And once we take over all these islands and all these different places, Then we'll say, okay, we're done. We're not going to want anything else. And their gamble was that if they did that, that the west wouldn't respond because they've already seen that the west has been challenged in Europe and in Africa and they haven't responded. Okay? So their idea is, well, we'll just do this, and it will present to this to the world as a fet. Accompli, means a done deal. And then, and then we'll get away with it, essentially, and then we won't need to worry about getting goods from the United States. You guys are following me here. Questions? Comments? But there was a. They had a. Their strategy was concerned. They were concerned that the United States might get involved. And so in order to discourage that, they decided as part of this expansion that they would bomb Pearl harbor. Right? Why Pearl Harbor? Because that's where the Pacific Fleet is, okay? United States Pacific Fleet is in Pearl Harbor. So the idea was if you destroy the Pacific Fleet of the United States, then they won't be able to respond even if they want to. You guys get what I'm saying? And that turns out to be a, a, a miscalculation because bombing Pearl harbor is going to enrage Americans. Right? And, and you, you will. I'll tell you now that Roosevelt has already been making deals about war with Japan. And a deal that he's made with Churchill is that if the United States goes to war against Japan, that they would also go to war against Germany and that they would. They would fight the war against Germany first. Okay? So, so the idea here is that when the Japanese attack Pearl harbor, that not only brings the United States into the war against Japan, but at the same time, it draws the war, the United States, into the war with Germany. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? All right, so let's go back then, and let's take a look at what's going on in Germany. Okay? What happens in Germany is the result of the Treaty of Versailles. In the Treaty of Versailles, Germany was supposed to be crippled. And so Germany was divided into two different areas, east and west. And then there was a creation of a whole bunch of new countries that I talked about last week. One of them was Czechoslovakia, and then it was Hungary, and, and Austria becomes its own country, Yugoslavia. All these different countries here are created out of the old empires, all right? And then this area here is going to be occupied by the French, by the Allies, really. And they're going to control the industrial heartland of Germany. Right? And all of this is to keep Germany down, make it so that Germany can't threaten the west again. All right? But what's going to happen is that after the war is over, the Western Allies are really going to lose interest in maintaining vigilance against the Germans. And going back to the early 1930s, the United States will witness, or actually the west will witness, Italy's invasion of Ethiopia and not respond. So the League of Nations was supposed to be in place to prevent that, but you'll recall that the United States never joined the League of Nations. So the League of Nations was. Was weak, and Italy essentially got away with it. And there's going to be another guy here in Germany. His name is. Is Adolf Hitler. And he's going to be watching what goes on. He's going to come to realize that the United States or that. I'm sorry, I keep saying the United States, that the west can't be counted on to defend the Treaty of Versailles or to enforce the Treaty of Versailles, right? And so he'll set out on a course of essentially conquering the world. All right? His idea was based on a racist idea that the German population, the people of Germany, were actually the superior race, okay? And the reason why they were superior race was because they were white. And that because they were the superior race, they had a right to rule all the other races, okay? And from the. From the. This kind of racist ideology that they had, there was a kind of hierarchy of races, okay? So, so the German race was at the top. And. And then the Anglo Saxon race, which would include the. The British were just under that, right? And. And then, you know, going down, the French. And keeping in mind these are not races, but from their point of view, it was ra. Okay? And then United States was kind of way down there because it was a mix, right? And then the more. The darker you got, the farther away you were. But the great enemy of Germany were the Jews, right? And the reason why the Jews were the great enemy was because the propaganda after the war was that it had been the Jews that had made a deal with the west to. To capitulate. Okay? It's actually not historically true, but it was a propaganda. It was. It was basically fake news that was. That was circulated that people were willing to buy. The idea was that Germany actually could have won the war, except that the Jews caused them to end it. Right? And not only that, but the Jews were also controlling the economy. And all the other things that you hear about Jews today, the one thing that you should know is that Hitler did not invent Antisemitism, but he was able to harness it as a weapon, and he used that to. To propel himself to power. The idea. It's. It's like the problem that Germany is experiencing now is because of the Jews. And if we just get rid of the Jews, then we'll be okay. And this is the racist ideology of authoritarianism that has been used before and it's still being used now. Right. If we look in American history, as we will later, at how, for example, during the Great Depression, people were struggling. Well, you guys already saw it in that movie, Los Moneros, right? In Los Moneros, people are struggling. And so who do they blame it on? Well, they blame it on the Mexicans, Right, because the Mexicans are taking our jobs. Right. So they expel all the Mexicans. Did that solve the Depression? No. Right. Same thing happens, though, with the Okies from California. From, you know, the people that came to California, Californians are like, you're taking away our jobs. And they looked at them as a kind of a separate race. Okay? So the idea here is that if we can create an enemy out of somebody, then we can ride that to our own political power. And this is what Hitler did. Okay? So Hitler's idea then was that he was going to unite all the Germans, all the German people, in one great nation, which he called Greater Germany, the Third Reich, which you can see here. Basically all this area here was going to be in the Third Reich. And then his plan was, after he had consolidated all the Germans into one state, that he was going to invade Russia because the people of Russia, the Eastern Europeans, were all Jews and intermention or lesser peoples. And so therefore they didn't have a right to the land, and the Germans did. So they were going to use the. This part of the Soviet Union has a kind of a breadbasket. And so that was the idea of Lebensraum. Lebensraum. The idea that we're going to create a Greater Germany and then we're going to expand into. Because it's a good agricultural area and also there's oil in there. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? So Hitler's plan was to consolidate Germany and then invade the Soviet Union. Okay. But they have the same problem that they had before World War I, which is that if they invade Russia, then that might draw France into the war and Britain. And so they actually used the same plan that they had before World War I, called the Schlieffen Plan, where they invade France through Belgium. The idea is to invade France through Belgium, take Paris and then, then move their forces to the, to the east and to take Russia. All right, you guys are with me. The only difference is that in, in 1939, September 1, 1939, Hitler puts his, his plan of conquest in motion. And part of it then was to invade Belgium, to invade France, to take Paris. But it worked. In World War I it didn't work, but in, in World War II, it did work. All right, and so pretty quickly, Germany has control over almost all of, all of all of Europe. And really the only country left to oppose the Soviet opposed Germany or Hitler in, in, in in Europe is going to be the Soviet Union and the, and the British. All right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? So, so basically now we've got, by the time we get to 1940, we've got two different wars going on. We've got one going on in, in the Pacific that's being waged by Japan against the Western powers, particularly United States, but also Britain and Holland. Right. And we have another war going on in, in Europe that's, that's against again, the Western powers, but also against the Soviet Union. All right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? And the United States is neutral. Okay, well, the United States is neutral, but the President doesn't want the United States to be neutral. Okay. The President, as I mentioned to you before, Roosevelt sees the rise of Hitler and also Mussolini and the militarists in Japan as a threat to democracy. And Roosevelt had actually been. In the Wilson administration. Roosevelt was very much a believer in America's mission, missionary diplomacy. You guys will recall we had talked about. Right. And, and so he works behind the scenes to set the stage for American involvement in the war, even though the United States is officially neutral. Okay. And one of the things that he did was he had a series of talks with, with Winston Churchill, what they call the ABC talks, which were conducted on a ship off the coast of Canada. It's the America, Britain and Canada talks. And the idea, this is where they made the deal that if the United States goes to war against Japan, then, then that the United States would then also go to war against Germany. And the deal was that they would fight the war in Europe first before they fought the war in the Pacific. Okay, you guys are with me. And the reason for that was because by this time the, the British were threatened by German control of the Mediterranean because Britain was connected to its empire through the Mediterranean, through the Suez Canal. All right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments about this? All right, so now interestingly when the United States does fight the war, it actually fights both wars at the same time. Okay. So the United States does fight in Africa right after the war begins for the United States, but it also continues to fight in the Pacific. So the United States will be, as I mentioned, fighting war actually on two fronts and essentially will be winning the war on two fronts. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions, Comments about this? I have a question about, about us. Like, so, you know, I read the chapter, and the chapter said that we declared war on Japan and then Germany declared war on us. Why wasn't it us declaring war on Germany? How did they know that we told, you know, Churchill would do that? Well, they didn't. Okay, but Germany and Japan had an, had a, a treaty, right? And the treaty was called the Tripartite Pact. And the Tripartite Pact was. The three parts was, were the Germans, the Italians and the Japanese. And that was a, that was an anti Soviet treaty, essentially. Right? So if Japan went to war with the United States, then Hitler, by treaty was bound to go to war against the United States as well. You see what I'm saying? And the, the, the Western powers knew that. Does that make sense? Yes. Okay. All right. That's a good question. Any other questions? Okay, so now the United States is in war, and again, we have total war. Remember I told you guys last week what a total war is? What is total war again? When you set your entire economy and nation towards war. Okay, so instead of having army against army, it's country against country. Right? And you're right. So what we end up with then is that everybody's involved in the war. It's not just the army. I mean, think about it now. The United States has been at war probably since before most of you were born, all over Asia. But we don't really know about it because most of us are not involved in it. The only thing we know about is every now and then we might hear a news story or if we have somebody that's in the military that's close to us, we would know about it. Right? But if we don't know about it, if we don't pay attention to the news and we don't have anybody close to us, we don't even know we're at war. I mean, you know, United States has troops all over Africa and people don't even know that. You know what I'm saying? Okay, so, so that would not be a total war. A total war would be where we all got together and decided we were going to fight this war against those Germans and Japanese. You guys follow me here. Okay, so then what happens then is in World War II, as in World War I. In World War I, we saw the federal government take on a bit greater role in the American system because it had to manage the war effort. And we see that on an even bigger scale in World War II. So the United States government then will take control of different segments of the economy, like, for example, the industry. Right? Well, now, here's the thing. That industry was essentially dead anyway. We were still in a depression. Nobody really was making anything. And now here the government comes and says, okay, well, we don't need for you to make automobiles. We need for you to make tanks and airplanes and things like that. And the industrialists are like, great, we'll do it because we don't have anybody. We're not making anything now anyway. And not only that, but the US Government pays really well, right? Okay, so. So here's an opportunity to start to make more money. And one of the stories that you read in. In the Good War is where you'll see somebody, One of the. One of the characters will say, well, we love the war because as soon as the war was on, we had a job and we could buy a refrigerator, right? So. So at any rate, the point here is that. But all of that is because the federal government is essentially taking over the economy. You guys are with me. Questions? Comments? All right, so. So then what happens then is that the. The kind of voluntary measures that had happened in the United States during World War I, like, you know, Meatless Tuesdays and. And things like that now become mandatory. People are. People are put on rations. They can only buy certain amounts of so many of certain things, right? Like gasoline, for example. Different things that are needed for the war effort, okay? And people go along with it because it's a patriotic thing, right? And generally speaking, you. This is going to be hard for us to imagine, right? But. But after war, after Pearl Harbor, Americans were united probably as they had never been united before or would be again, right? Because the vast majority of Americans were totally in favor of the war. Okay? Not. Not everybody, but the vast majority. And so anybody that spoke out against the war, refused to go along with the war effort, was seen as an enemy. You follow me here? And the result of that, then, is that there's this kind of almost like what you could call peer pressure for everybody to contribute whatever they could to the war effort. You guys are following me here. And so what. What creates this peer pressure? Well, part of it Comes again from propaganda. So let's just take a look at some of the. A couple of the. Of the posters like we did for World War I. Right? So. So this one, what do we see here? Hitler and the Japanese. The guy in Japanese, charge of Japanese, like, sneaking up on the Americans from both sides, huh? Tojo. His name is Tojo. Right. Okay. And so what is it? What. What's the. The. What's the implication here, even though it's not really implied? That we should be afraid of them attacking us. Exactly. We should be afraid. Says our homes are in danger now, and so we need to keep firing, meaning we have to work in our effort, work on our war effort. Everybody has to work on our war effort. We have little kids actually collecting scrap metal for the war effort. We have people donating their, you know, bacon grease for the war effort. You know what I'm saying? Right. So everybody's involved in this war. It's not just the military. It's not just the government. Okay. And that's not something that we can really imagine now, but that's the way it was. All right, here's another one. What do we see here? It's a little bit more subtle. It's like a. Like a snake and a frog. The snake kind of like a depiction of Hitler to me, in a way. Oh, yeah, it does. Obviously, is a symbol. Okay, and what about this one? I don't know who that job. It's a Japanese one. That's. Yeah, it's a Japanese one, a Nazi one. I never have been able to figure out who the frog is. Right. But he's been hurt anyway. At any rate, what do we see here? Do we. Do we. Do we like snakes? I don't know. Yeah, I don't think it's Mussolini. But at any rate, what's the implication here that the Germans and the Japanese are what, Snakes? And what are you supposed to do with snakes? Yeah, you got to kill them. Right. Okay. So the idea is we're going to stamp them out. We're going to kill these snakes. Right. So now the thing again, when we look at these pictures and we look at these evil men in control of Germany and Japan, or Germany and Japan as nasty, slithering beasts, what does that do in a country like the United States? Because the United States has a huge population of people who are descended from Germans, and at this time, they also have a very large population of people who are descended from Japanese. Right. So now this taking away the humanity of Germans and Japanese, what effect will that have on American, Germans and Japanese. It makes them look bad. And like, you know, the state. They're suspect, right? They're suspect. Like, so now here's a terrible, terrible thing, but actually true is that there are a number of people in the country today who blame the COVID crisis on Asians. And there have been a number of attacks against Asians, open attacks. Right. And what's the reason for it? It's the same thing as we see here. If we can define the enemy as less than human, then we don't have to worry about hurting them. You follow what I'm saying? And that's what we see now. So, so this, this is maybe good for rallying people to, to fight the war, but it's really bad for a country that's made up of a diverse population. Okay, you guys get what I'm saying? Questions? Comments? Because if you single out one segment of the population as being the enemy, that hurts everybody. I don't know what the proper term would be in internment camps in California for the Japanese descendants. Right, exactly. So that. Yeah, so there were, there were internment camps against the Japanese because they were afraid that the Japanese would. Would ally themselves with the, The Imperial Japanese. But. And, and that was based on race. The reason why it was based on race is because it's easier to tell if somebody's Japanese and they used to tell somebody's German. Because somebody's German, they can just change their name. Right. Which is what happened to a lot of them. Right. But you'll recall, though, that in World War I that the, the. The enemy essentially in the United States were the German Americans, people with German last names that were lynched and were run out of town and discriminated against. You follow me here. Questions? Comments? So, yeah, the Japanese internment is part of it, but it's really. I, I think that even though that was a racist act, Americans can act racist against people who are not necessarily of a different ethnicity. Like, you'll see, like I said, where one of our groups is going to do Okies, you know, in California. Right. Okies are white Americans, and yet they're looked upon as foreigners, causing trouble for us. You follow what I'm saying? Questions? Comments? Okay, well, let's leave that then. The, The. The major significant. There's many, many, many significant things about World War II in American history. And the. I think that World War II was as transformative an event in the United States as the Civil War. Okay. And the. So, so the significance of the, of The World War II isn't just the kind of geopolitical significance that comes out of, you know, the American involvement. But the other thing that war, the war did in the United States was that it opened up or made visible currents of unrest that had, that Americans had been able to ignore up to this point. Right. One of them was race. Right. That this was an era of Jim Crow. That there was a legally enforced inferior class system based on race in many parts of the United States, not just in the South. Right. And also in terms of, of women's rights and, and other, other cultures, other ethnicities. And, and keep in mind what we read in Meacham's book about Americans response to the influx of people from other parts of the world. Right. When people from other parts of the world come to the United States, they're always seen as somehow a threat. Okay? So, so what comes out of the, of the war, even though the United States is one of the most, or actually is the most powerful country on earth and the most prosperous country on earth, at the same time it sets in motion conflicts in American society that will eventually end up with a complete breakdown in social order in the United States by the end of the 1960s. You guys follow what I'm saying here. And so the real outcome here then is going to be for example, the civil rights movement. That, that there was the. When, how should I say this, that when black people entered the armed services and black people went into, into war industries, they were still treated separately, they were discriminated against. And, and there was a, essentially a, a threat by a guy named A. Philip Randolph who threatened to march black people, for black people to march on Washington against racism, against this discrimination. And that was seen as a real threat to the Americans by Roosevelt because the United States was supposedly fighting against racism in particularly in Europe. Right. Okay, so what happens then is that he's going to issue an order, Order 8802, which bans racial discrimination in war related industries. And this is going to be really the beginning of the civil rights movement. Right. Because black people are going to go to war and they're going to. Hold on a second. They're delivering something. Just go ahead and leave it out there. So they're going to be. What's the word I'm looking for? Sorry about that, I was distracted. That they are going to contribute to the war effort as much as anybody else. Just like we saw in Los Meneros, right. That the Hispanic Americans, it contributed as much to the war effort or more as anybody else. Right. And so they're going to demand a Seat at the table. And so World War II is going to be the. The kind of event, the. That. The catalyst that breaks that open. Right. It will also then set the stage for women's rights. Women will go to work in the factories because the men are often at war. But then when they come, when the war is over, women are going to say, well, we helped fight this war. Why can't we have lives outside the kitchen? Right. And this will be the beginning of the women's rights movement. And then we'll see. During the war, the United States is going to allow a number of people from Latin American countries into the United States. They're called braceros, with the idea that they're going to come to the United States and they're going to work during the war in the fields, for example. But then after the war, they're going to go back to where they came from. Mexico or where. Wherever. Right. The problem, of course, is that. Well, it's not really a problem. It's just biology that when they come to the United States, they have children. And the American Constitution is such that anybody born in the United States is automatically a citizen. You follow what I'm saying here? And so what happens is they come to the United States and they make citizens, and at the end of the war, they're expected to go home, but they don't want to go home because they have kids here who are citizens. You follow me here? And this is going to set up our whole argument about immigration and illegal immigration. And what's really interesting was they weren't illegal when they were invited here, but then they become illegal when they're no longer needed, it seems, at any rate. And then you guys, as we mentioned, we talked about the separation of Japanese. Right? You guys are following me here. So all of these things really lay open a number of inconsistencies in the American culture, because America says it's the land of the free, home of the brave, a land of equality, land of liberty. And yet we see all of these kind of contradictions to that in American life and culture. And World War II will make that evident, because everybody ends up being involved in the war effort. And so everybody demands to be considered equal citizens afterwards. You guys are with me. Questions? Comments? All right, last thing. And I'm finished for now. Okay. The war is over. The United States emerges as the most powerful nation. Unlike after World War I, the United States does take on the mantle of being the leader of the liberal countries, I should say we call it democracy versus totalitarianism. But in reality, it's the leader of the West. United States takes on that role and abandons its previous non intervention, basically isolationist policy. Right. And then one of the things that happens right at the end of the, of the war is going to be that this struggle between communism and capitalism will come to the forefront. Because after the war is over, the Soviet Union is going to be trying to, to extend its influence around the world, and the United States will be opposed to that extension of its influence. All right? And that is an ideological battle between the United States and the Soviet Union, but it's also a battle over the issue of decolonization because one of the outcomes of World War II too is going to be that all the European powers are going to lose their empires. And when they lose their empires, they're going to leave behind countries that are devastated by, by colonialism. And that's going to set the stage then for a contest in those countries over whether they should become communist or whether they should be liberal capitalists. Right. And one of the places where we're going to see that is going to be in Southeast Asia, in Vietnam, for example. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions, comments about this. And then finally this. One of the outcomes of World War II is that it becomes possible for the entire Earth to be made uninhabitable with nuclear weapons. When we looked at World War I, the outcome of World War I was millions of people dead, but the world continued. Right. But the outcome of World War II sets the stage for the possibility that the whole world could end. And you put that possibility into the mix of the Cold War with the United States and the Soviet Union both controlling nuclear weapons, that it becomes possible for the entire world to end. And so there's going to be what they call the age of anxiety when people are going to be concerned about, oh my God, the world could just end. And I want you to kind of think about that when you're reading about that last story in Turkel's book, the Street Corner Kids. Okay. Live long and prosper. Thank you. I'll see you next time. Thank you, Professor. Okay. Somebody wanted to talk to me for 30 seconds? Yes. Okay, the timer's on. All right, I'll make it quick, Professor. So on Wednesday of last week, I asked you if I could submit a late assignment for the 20s and told me to speak to you this week because you were considering implementing your new policy. And so I've seen the announcement you made and I just wanted to ask you to follow up with you on that. Question. Yeah, we'll come to CBN office hours. I'll give you a code. Okay, awesome. Thank you. Professor, should I schedule it with you now or should I email you to schedule? No, you don't have to schedule. Just come. I'm here from one to two. All right, thank you. Right. It's not here. It's actually the. The link is in the syllabus. Yeah, yeah, I got it. Okay. Yep. Thank you. All right, I'll see you. I'll see you maybe at one or two. All right. If you come at five minutes to two, I might not still be here. Yeah, okay. All right. Thank you so much. Okay, Professor, I just had a question for you. It's like two seconds. It's like. It's like, kind of related, but have you ever seen the movie Good Night and Good Luck? I have. That's a great movie. I was gonna say we're gonna talk about. Actually, I'm going to show you some clips of Edward OMURO and. And McCarthy. Yes, in a couple of weeks. Cool. Awesome. All right, well, I just wanted to ask you if you've seen that. Okay. Yeah. All right. Live long and prosper. All right, I'll see you on Monday. Have a good one. Bye, Professor.