Okay, guys, it's time to start. I. Who's the band? Anita? Oh, that's the Specials. Oh, I don't know. I've never heard of them because I'm. I'm like an old, old fogey, too, but, you know, well, I mean, it's relative, isn't it? So I don't have a song for you guys today. What do you think about that? Boo. Right. Bumper, off your game. Well, we're going to do a discussion today. Before I guess we get started on that, are there any questions or comments about anything that I can help you with on the peer review thing? It still shows after I did. Still shows up as something that I need to do. Is that normal? I don't know. As long as you did it, Professor. I'm sorry, somebody else. 9:36. So what's that? Oh, I. I think somebody's talking to their roommate. The first. Yeah, there we go. All right. So anyway, yeah, I don't know. But as long as you did it, that's all that matters. I'll be checking them tomorrow morning, and I'll have your grades done tomorrow morning so you'll be able to see your midterm grades. Any questions or other. Other questions or comments about anything. I just joined, so I didn't really hear what that question was about. But my peer review was not like, not all the people in there were in my group, and then there were some extra people, so I just want anybody. Okay. So the group wasn't an accurate portrayal of who I took the test with. Yeah, I feel like you're in my group. Right. I actually. I don't think we were in the same group. Was your name in the group that you were in? Yes, group two. Okay, but does it. I think I had, like. See, I can't remember all the names. It was like Vernon, I think, Linda, Nay, and then I can't remember the last two, but there was some that I knew weren't in my group that were on there. Was there anybody that was. Everyone was helpful. Was there anybody that was in your group that was not on. In. Listed on your. See, I think he was originally in group number one with us because I saw his name on my. No critique, but I guess he got moved. Let me just take a look here. So. So, Ian, hold on a second. You're in group two, right? That's what I thought. Okay, let me just take a look here. All right, so in terms of the groups, how do I do this? Oh, here and then people, I categorize you guys under people. All right, so group two, then, is Linda, Vernon, Bijad, Joe, Joshenay, John, and Ian. Does that sound right? Yeah, I think I had, like, a Nay. Naya in our group, too. Josh and a. But I. I don't. I don't see her here today. Well, this. That. That's the name that's on the. The roster, but a lot of times you guys go by, oh, Josh and A. Okay, never mind then. Okay. You follow what I'm saying here? Yeah, I do see what you're saying. Yeah. Okay. Any other questions or comments? Yeah. Okay. You. I know you said a while ago, Sorry, I'm having, like, I think, technical difficulties. Everyone keeps freezing up. But a while ago, you said with the. So you on canvas, you would, like, after the assignments were due, you would lock them so you can't submit them. And I believe I heard you saying that you, like, changed it so you can still submit them and get late credit. So I've missed, like. The only assignment I've missed is actually, like, Los Maneros. And I was wondering, like, can I just turn that in for, like, late credit? Is that something. No, you have to. You have to read the. The. The announcement that I made about that. You can turn it in, but you have to come to my office hours and get a code. Otherwise I won't grade it. Oh, okay. Gotcha. Okay. Okay, I understand. So, but I can still just, like, turn it in and I would get a certain amount of credit for it. You'll get full credit. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. Yeah, points for being late, but you have to come to my office hours to get a code. Okay. Okay, Gotcha. Thank you. All right, anybody else? These are all good questions, guys. I'm glad you're on it. Let me go ahead and get started. We're going to. Actually, we're doing a discussion today, so you guys should have read chapters 5 and 6 from the Meacham book. Did you guys do that? Yeah. Okay, so why don't we just run through the questions and we'll see where we go from there. So let me just go ahead and share the screen. All right. Now, do you see my canvas there with the questions? Yeah. Okay, let's go ahead and start with the first one. On page 75 of the book Meacham writes, TR's capacity to stand. I don't think this is the right one. Huh? Yeah, this isn't five, six. This is. We already did this. We're. I think we're in five, six. Oh, I Thought this was the right one. Hold on a second. We did three, four before spring break. Oh, okay. Well, just hold on a second then. Let me stop this. Share and I. Oh, you're right. It is Mecham 3, 4. Why am I looking at that? Well, you guys are really sharp today. Not like me. Happy Monday. Yeah, exactly. Well, it. It's worse as you get older. Okay, here we go. I. I think this is a. Okay. Comment on Meacham's description of the challenges faced by the United states in the 1930s, particularly in terms of economics and the effects of financial insecurity on the public's faith in American institution. Meacham quotes the New York times on page 149. Men will thank God on their knees 100 years from now that Franklin D. Roosevelt was in the White House in a position to give leadership to the thought of the American people and direction to the activities of. Of their government. In that dark hour when a powerful and ruthless Barbara Barbarism threatened to overturn overrun the civilizations of the Western world. Meacham seems to imply that the only reason United States survived is a constitutional republic. It did not fall under the sway of fascism or communism was FDR's presidency. Do you agree or disagree? Explain. Do you see similarities between conditions? And now elaborate. Okay, so what do you guys think about that one? First off, the. How Meacham describes the 1930s. What were the challenges facing the United states in the 1930s? Like, well, no jobs. Right. And an insecurity and banking system or something. Right, okay, exactly. I mean, we talked about that when we talked about the Depression. Right. And. And in the New York Times is. Is talking about Franklin Roosevelt. What are they talking about when they say men say that. That he gave direction in that dark hour when a powerful and ruthless barbarism threatened to overrun the civilization of the Western world. What does that mean? Talking about opposition. The communist people pushing the communist agenda. Okay, can you think of an example of that in the United States? An example I think of is what's his face? Upton Sinclair. Yeah, what's his face? That's exactly right. I mean, and that's the question that we ask is why was Upton Sinclair, who was openly socialist, so popular when Americans have always been against communism and socialism? Because this is dark, rough time. Exactly. And when did we say that communism is actually attractive? When people are poor. Yeah. When you don't have anything. When you don't have anything, the idea of sharing everything seems like a good idea. Right. Let's think about the other. The other. When they talk about this ruthless barbarism. Do we see examples of that anywhere else in the world? Italy. Italy? Where else? Germany. Germany and Soviet Union. Soviet Union, Latin America, Japan, China. Exactly. We see it all over the world except in the United States. Remember I told you that at the end of the Depression, the United States was the only liberal country left in the world. It was really the only capitalist country left in the world. Fully capitalist. All right, so, so was it all because of Roosevelt? I mean, I think the, the way he handled it was really helpful for not letting us like fall into communism or fascism, but I think that it wasn't completely him. Okay, well, what was it then? I think it was a combination of a lot of things. I don't know exactly. Do you think that if, if Roosevelt had not been elected that the United States might have become a communist country? It, it might have. Maybe. I, like, I don't, I think there's a chance. But like, like, I think FDR was just like a really strong like, leader during the time when he was president and he had like a good part in that, remember? What do you think was his major legacy? What did he give the Americans? A New Deal? He gave him hope. Exactly. Americans believe when Franklin Roosevelt said, I'm going to save capitalism, Americans believed him. They believed that there was a way out. Right. And in other countries we didn't see that happen. And so, so, so, but then the question is, would America become a communist country? I don't think we ever would have. I mean, I see socialism being attractive, but I don't think Americans would ever have thought communism. Yeah, I mean, I mean, in my opinion, I feel like the, our, the American attitude of we don't like sharing or, you know, the American attitude just basically not liking communism is, is just far too strong to. Right. To really overcome that. Okay, go ahead. I'm sorry. They might have accepted communism esque, like bills and stuff like that, but they, I don't think they would have accepted flat out communism advertised to them as communism. Like kind of how Sinclair was, where he was like very adamant about his Socialism. Yeah, socialism, yeah. You know, in the American mind, there usually isn't that much difference between communism and socialism, especially the way it's actually implemented. Well, the thing about it is those places that they say are communist really aren't theoretically communist. They don't really follow the Marxist model. Right. For example, the Soviet Union or North Korea have established brutal centralized states. They, they don't have. A communist country would be where they didn't even have A government, right. That everybody just worked for everybody else's benefit. Does that make sense to you guys? Okay, so at any rate, that's why you can, you can see interchangeably used, for example, who, who would you think in American government today is. Calls himself a socialist? Bernie Sanders. Bernie Sanders. All right, and so when people talk about Bernie Sanders and they say, well, what would happen if Bernie Sanders became president, right? The. What, what, what's the picture that they use? Do they, do they say that. Isn't it like you're losing your stuff? I guess it would be that what you're saying is that we would become communists and communist countries are in, in terrible shape, like Venezuela, for example, or North Korea, where people are starving even though they have nuclear weapons. Right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Okay. I don't think that I really see that people see him as a communist. I hear a lot people saying socialist, but I don't know that I get the connection with communism. Well, he says he's a socialist, but if you, I don't know if you guys will. When he was running for president last year, he was one of the reasons why he lost his momentum was because he was associated with Fidel Castro. Do you guys remember that? That, that he had come out and, and he had used, he had praised some of the steps that had been taken in Cuba by the communist government there. And so many people said, oh, yeah, well, he's a communist. Right? And I guess I don't remember that part. Yeah, well, that was, that was the, that was the thing that really kind of ate into. He was. He had some momentum going there for a little while, and then people started, oh, he's a communist. We can't have a communist. Right. It was bad enough that he was a socialist, but any rate, the point here is that communism and socialism are kind of put in the same basket for Americans in a way. Right. Because it has to do, again, with sharing. Although sometimes Americans associate socialism and communism with a totalitarian government. And, and communism and socialism are both economic theories. They're not theories of government. Right. So at any rate. Questions? Comments? All right, what about fascism or. I don't know if we've talked about this. Corporatism. I think we have talked about it. Right? Corporatism is where the entire. All of the different interests of the nation are incorporated in a single party. Right? So the entire. Like in the United States, we have the left and the right. We have the farmers generally on the right and, you know, industrial workers on the left. And, and so they have their own kind of political machines that vie for influence in the government openly in elections. In a fascist government or a corporate style government. The, the left and the right would all be in the same party and all of the conflicts between them would be worked out within the party and not in, not in the, in democratic elections. You guys follow what I'm saying? So the problem generally with corporatism is that it often, almost always ends up being associated with a single person, right? So in Italy it was Mussolini. In Germany was Hitler. In Spain it was Franco. In Argentina it was Juan Peron. In Brazil it was. Right. And, and what happens is that it becomes a cult of personality. And when that cult of personality, when that personality fades from the scene, then the movement falls apart. You guys follow? I'm saying the, the, the, the, the contrast to that is in Mexico, In Mexico, they established in 1920 the pre. Or 1927 or 28, something like that, the Pre. The Partido Revolutionario. I forgot the rest of it. But at any rate, the point here is that institutional. But anyway, the point here is that the, the Pre was a single party state that had left and right in the state, but it wasn't associated with an individual. Because the Mexican presidency changes every six years. That's why they have a saying in Mexican politics. God dies every six years. Right? So the kind of, one aspect of corporatism or fascism is the idea of a strong leader. The strong leader is going to solve all the problems, right? So, so in Italy, Mussolini made the trains run on time. In, in, in Germany, Hitler had pretty close to full employment of the people at the end of the 1930s. You guys follow what I'm saying here? Okay, so, so there's this. A lot of people will, when they're in bad, when they're in bad situ, in a bad situation, they'll say, well, here comes, you know, Hitler, he's going to solve all our problems for us. Right? Or here comes Mussolini, he's going to solve all our problems for us. Okay? So that's when we think about fascism, that's the way we kind of have to think about it. We don't always have to think about fascism being associated with racism. Right? Although it might almost always is. Right? The, the question that I want to ask you guys though is do you think that the United States might become fascist or might have in the 1930s? I don't know. I don't, I don't think there was a strong enough sort of like leader figure as you describe a cold personality at the time. I mean, that's just the way I'm looking at it. If fascism is based around a person, I don't think there was necessarily a person that could have had a cold personality around them. Okay, there. Okay, I think you're right. There's probably wasn't a strong person at that time. But do you think that Americans at any time might rally around a strong leader to solve all their problems if things get desperate enough? Okay, all right. We'll leave it at that for now. Well, the one thing about. Is, do you see any correlation between the events and the situation in the 1930s in the United States and today? Sure. People are losing trust in the government again. Okay. Why? Because, you know, they failed to. Well, our government kind of failed to drop the ball. They dropped the ball on keeping this code pandemic in check. And so people just have kind of. Okay, well, people have lost faith in the government way before that. Although you're right, that was kind of an example of how the government really can't govern. Right. Okay. But even before that, there was a sense that. That America was out of control, that nobody could really run things. Right. And so people were afraid. The lifestyle is changing, you know, like, manufacturing is going away and, you know, farming is not the way that it used to be. And so there's a lot of people who are very concerned about the future. They think that the future looks bleak and they're looking for somebody to speak for their interests. Do you think that anybody in the United States might fit that bill? Are you pointing at yourself, Chris? Yes, I'm sorry. No, I was just commenting that. Me, I'm the guy for. In a couple. Okay, yeah, anybody. But. All right, so. So, you know what I'm saying. You know what? I'm. Where I'm going with this, and that is that many people believe that many people were very concerned about their economic situation and the situation of the country. And, and here comes this guy, Donald Trump, and he says, I'm going to fix everything for you. He. He said that at an. At the Republican Convention. He said, I alone can fix it. Right. And, and how many people say, oh, yeah, he's our guy. He's the one. He's for us. Right. You guys get what I'm saying? People fervently follow him. Right. And so I think that the takeaway for me is that I don't think it's possible that America would ever become communist. I think that America already is to some extent socialist and pretty much always has been. But I don't But I do see that it's possible Americans might, might move toward fascism or toward corporatism, toward this strong leadership thing. Right? Do you guys follow what I'm saying? In our case, we call it populism. Populism, meaning that there's a strong man who speaks for the popular people, for the. For the people. And the problem with populism, we've had a couple of other populist presidents. We had Andrew Jackson and Theodore Roosevelt, Right? And the problem with the populist presidents is that their popularity makes it possible for them to ignore the Constitution. You follow what I'm saying? And that's what we saw with Jackson and with Roosevelt. Right. So I'm just going to leave it there. Any questions or comments about that? Okay, Meacham, comments on page 169 on FDR's effort on behalf of Jews during World War II. One wishes for a better outcome for wiser heads, for a more compassionate public, yet one wishes in vain. The only comfort, if we can call it that, is that a knowledge of our past failings may equip us to confront evil without delay when evil comes again. For it will. Here, Meacham is expressing the hope of the historian that by acknowledging past failures, we may shape a better future in the face of the inevitable return of evil. How do you think it is inevitable that as a nation we must periodically confront great evils? Explain, and if so, provide examples? Do you agree that with Meacham that the constellation of human historical failure is the ability to learn from the mistakes of our forebears, give examples one way or the other or both? Question that's wide open, guys. I do think that it is inevitable for, like, us to. For something to resurface couple of years realizing that, you know, there's some sort of wrongdoing we've done for a certain group of people in our country. Can you give an example? Yeah. So, like, just policing in the United States, a lot of the time it's, you know, targeted towards people of color and minorities in our country. Right. And that's something that we've, like, known for a long time and confronted multiple times over since the first civil rights movement. But, yeah, I think that, you know, that's going to keep going on for a while and. But then I also don't think that there's consolation because, you know, damage has already been done. You can't repair something in the past that are, like, say that just because we're solving it now, that doesn't mean that there weren't years of damage done to communities. Well, I think that we can acknowledge that there has been damage done, and that's why we're actually addressing it now. Mm. You follow what I'm saying? Yeah. And like you said, we can't change the past, but we can change the present. Yeah, absolutely right. The nature of a constellation, too, is like, you didn't get what you wanted the first time, but at least you. You have it now. Like, have this, which is at least, you know. At least you know what you did wrong. Do you think that Americans learn that way historically? I don't think we do, because I think we have a short memory. Yeah. Yeah. I think you might be right about that. I've read that historical memory is about two generations. Right. Well, I mean, everybody agrees that the Japanese internment camps weren't good, but we're doing sort of the same thing down at the border borders right now. And the abuses are even worse. Right? Well, I think that they're not exactly the same, but you're. But they're. But they are. We're not actually rounding people up and putting them in camps at the border. They're coming to here, and we end up putting them in camps. Right. But they're volunteering to come here. So it's not the same thing as taking away all your property and putting. Putting you in a. In a camp somewhere far away. But at the same time, putting people in camps is not a good thing to do, generally speaking. What about other things? Do you think that there are any lessons that we might have learned from the past? I mean, we definitely learned a lesson, like, from World War II, because, like, I believe I'm right in saying this, but America did not had, like, almost. They kind of ignored the fact that there are concentration camps for Jewish people at first, and then they kind of, like, went in and they, quote, unquote, discovered it. Although it wasn't, like, necessarily totally new information. Didn't we just not know the extent of how bad it was? I think that's exactly. Hello. I mean. I mean, I think you can say the same thing is going on now. I'm pretty. Maybe I'm wrong about this, but, like, from what I've heard, like, in China, they have camps almost for, like, Muslim people, I believe. Yeah. Yeah. That's horrible. Or what about Myanmar twiggers? Yeah. Or the Rohingya. Do you know what I'm talking about? No. They're the ethnic group that's being essentially destroyed by the government of Myanmar. Oh, wow. Yeah. And it's like, Things like that, I don't, like, I don't think America would war over things like that unless it ended up like, America will help, but unless it personally somehow affects us. Like in the World War II situation, we wouldn't necessarily go like arm's deep into China. You know, what I want you guys to do is I want you to remind me today or tomorrow by email that I'm going. I want to give you guys an extra credit. That talks about. It's an essay from the Los Angeles Times that talks about American attitude towards Jewish people at the beginning of World War II. Right. And so I want to, I want, I want to give you guys that. It's kind of, kind of an eye opener because it talks about a ship. I can't remember the name of the ship, but there was a ship full of Jewish immigrants, Jewish refugees from, from Germany. And the ship was not allowed to off embark its passengers anywhere and eventually ended up going back to Germany. And the United States was one of the places that turned them away. Right. And they ended up going back to Germany and they all ended up in concentration camps. Right. So we were all pretty. And not to mention time too. Oh, Mount Soledad is basically like design for anti Semiticism in La Jolla. And they put that up there. They put the cross there for that reason. Not that same one, but they put a different one. Yeah, I did not know that when I was gonna say something. Anyway, what do you guys think? Keep going. In terms of confronting great evils. Oh, the United States turned away the Jews, Right. But now the Americans are. The American is staunchly anti anti Semitic. I mean, yeah, there's anti Semitism in the United States and it may even be growing, but the general consensus of people in the United States is against antisemitism. Does that make sense to you guys? So we may have learned a lesson there. You see what I'm saying? Here's an interesting thing. I, I don't know if you guys will recall when, when Barack Obama was president, many people believed he was a Muslim, Right? He was secretly a Muslim. And because of that he was a, an enemy of the country. Do you guys remember that? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. Well, when Franklin Roosevelt was president, many people believed he was secretly Jewish. Do you see the difference? You see the similarity there? Yes. At that time. I'm sorry, I'm sad. I was probably not even like any evidence against him. It's just one person decided to say that and then controversy took over. Right. Well, it was secret. It was. I mean, the whole thing about the Jews, the kind of anti Jewish rhetoric essentially, is that they're always doing everything in secret, right? You can't see what they're doing. They're. They're little conspirators, right? They're doing things secretly, right? And so if Roosevelt was a Jew, he would be a Jew secretly. Right? And that makes it even more dastardly, I guess you can say. But the point of it was that, well, why would they even bother to call him a Jew if. If it wasn't for the fact that Jews were considered to be enemies at the time? Do you see what I'm saying? Questions? Comments? Okay, let's. Let's move on then. Meacham describes one appeal of McCarthy as his ability. Oh, yeah, we talk. This is interesting. I thought this was the most interesting chapter. Meacham describes One appeal of McCarthy as his ability to portray the world in apocalyptic terms. On pages 184 and 185, the author illustrates McCarthy's state of view of the world as a struggle in which either communism or Christianity would survive. Meacham also characterized American fear of communism as hysterical, notwithstanding the reality of Soviet aggression. Meacham notes that McCarthy regarded everyone who disagreed with him as either communist support, supportive of communism, or duped by Communists. And also, and this also characterized his supporters. In a struggle where life itself is at stake, there can be no compromise. Do you see similar sentiment in contemporary politics? Consider that point of view in the context of the following quote from Thomas Jefferson's first inaugural address. Every difference of opinion is not a difference of principle. We have called by different names brethren of the same principle. We are all Republicans. We are all Federalists. If there be any among us who would wish to dissolve this union or to change its Republican form, let them stand undisturbed as monuments of the safety with which error of opinion may be tolerated where reason is left free to combat it. Okay, which point of view? On the one hand, we have McCarthy's point of view, which is that it's a life or death struggle against communism and those people who don't agree with me are all communists. And then we have Jefferson's point of view. And we have to understand that the Federalists and Republicans at that time were really very far apart. I mean, they were not. They didn't, they didn't see themselves as having anything really in common. Right? But Jefferson was saying, well, we can disagree with each other, but we can still be American. Right? Do you follow what I'm saying here? And so the question that I asked Then is which point of view would Meacham align with better angels? And which one would you assign as America's better angels? Jefferson, do you think? Jefferson. Why? Because the. The alternative is McCarthy. And one way is the only way. I think. Yeah, McCarthy is definitely like an aggravator, like, in the sense. And I think Thomas Jefferson's whole was preaching is basically, we could. That's the whole beauty of democracy, is we could all have our own opinions, and then the collective majority of our opinions will become true, and there's no need to hold each individual person like. Like someone for their purview, because it. It might not. It's not. Their views might not be the sole reason in which it's like that. Okay, I kind of got into there. I just think. I agree. It's more of the alternative is me as McCarthy. And I think that McCarthy is not the better battle for our battle angels. Okay, what about the idea of apocalyptic thinking? Do you guys know what that means? Yeah, it's like. Yeah, convincing people that we're at the end, and then that forces people to make a dramatic decision that they might have not had to make if they didn't think that they were at the end of the line. Right. It's kind of like. It's kind of like. I don't know if you guys will remember. Maybe some of you do back in 2016, when the election was between Clinton and Trump and there were memes all over the Internet that showed Hillary Clinton as the devil fighting against Jesus. Right. So. So what is that? What do you think that says? What. What's the message of that? Kind of a. Of a. Of a image? That message in particular, I would say, is like, the Democrats of America are anti Christian, which is a message that's been, like, trying to be spread. It's even worse than that. They're not just anti Christian, but they're actually anti devil. Yeah, right. Yeah, they're actually the devil. All right, but can you negotiate with the devil? I mean, from a biblical stand? So you. Can you compromise with the devil? Only if I'm in Georgia. But the idea. You understand what I'm saying, though, right? Yes. The idea behind apocalyptism apocalyptic thinking is that my opponent isn't just my opponent. My opponent is the personification of evil. Yeah. It's using people's religion against them or, like, to convince. To make them fearful of the. An outcome that they could potentially prevent. Go ahead. I was just going to say. But it's. He was also. Trump was also like, what I got from a lot of what he said was he thought that Democrats were like, anti America a lot of the time. So if people weren't religious, that was sort of the side that they. He appealed to. Well, there was. I mean, I have to tell you this, that there was a large number of people in the United States, I think, particularly since the election of Obama in 2008, who believed that Democrats were anti American. Who came to believe that American. That Democrats were anti America. Yeah. And so Trump didn't actually think that up on his own. Right. But he did weaponize it. And here's the reason why I think it's important when we say it is because. Well, that's basically it. I'm asking really, what about how can American democracy survive if we can't agree to disagree. It won't. Yeah. Tensions will just slowly get tighter and tighter until some sort of combustion occurs. Yeah, I mean, I think, like, tensions will just rise. And social media is largely responsible for that because it. It's actually known that you pretty much get fed what you believe and your beliefs. They are quote, unquote, wrong. They just get reinforced further and further. That just. Yeah, that just makes people go against each other, even though both sides can be wrong and it's purely because of social media. Well, I think that it goes even further than that. I think you're right, but I think he goes even further than that, because what happens is we have whole groups of people who aren't even speaking the same language. Right. They don't even live in the same world. And it's partially because of those echo chambers. If I live in one of those echo chambers, I don't understand what the person that's in the other echo chamber even thinks. All I can see is that they don't think like me, so they must be enemies. It creates a divide. So. So what do you guys think would be the outcome of this? Is there any way to fix it? Well, the person who's whipping up the frenzy like McCarthy could die, or we could vote the other person out of office, which is what we did. But I don't know that that gets rid of it. Just tones it down a little bit. That's become a weapon in politics is to get people on your side that way. Right. Become normalized. Well, it's life or death if I don't vote for, you know, so and so, you know, it's going to be the end of everything. I mean, we saw it with the last, last election cycle. It's like, oh, if we vote For Trump, it's going to be the apocalypse. Oh, if we vote for Biden, it's going to be the apocalypse. Look at this, look at that. Yeah. It's a weapon that they use in politics now. And unless the politicians stop, it's not going away. Well, now let's hold on just a second. Because we blame it all on the politicians, but the politicians aren't the ones who vote. They take advantage of our nature. Yeah, for sure. Because I don't think Trump or maybe even McCarthy actually even believed 100% all the things they were putting out there to the people who support. I think they just knew that that was the right thing to say to those people to get them whipped up, so they did it. So it was calculated. It was calculated. But if, if I. Let's say that somebody in, somebody among you guys, students. Right. You think I'm a wild eyed liberal, which I'm not particularly. Right. But let's say that you think I am. Right. And you're more of a very strong right wing supporter. Right. Let's say. And so the situation in politics today is that if you're a strong right wing supporter, then I'm your enemy and we have nothing in common. Right. And, and if, if I'm the, the wild eyed liberal and you're the strong right wing supporter. Same. Right. We don't have anything in common. Right. So how do we overcome that? Well, once politics becomes, or once it feels to the people like it's less of a. Are my, are my rights being taken away? Are my, you know, is something being taken. Cause we're always afraid of things being taken away from us. Like that's sort of the American way. Like in times when that's a little bit less, so the tensions are a little bit released. I don't necessarily recall the last time that the tensions weren't so intense, but maybe one day that'll happen again. Well, American politics has always been very messy, as we've learned in this class. Right. It's always been divisive. But the thing that we need to keep in mind, the way that I would find out that you're not the evil monster that you've been portrayed on social media. How would I find that out? By talking to that person. Exactly. We have to talk to each communication. If we can talk to each other, we'll find out that we're not so different. It's so funny because I feel like there's some people that I have like, like my parents, friends that I have on Facebook and they Post, like, really intense, crazy stuff, like, pro Trump stuff. And it's so. It's so hard for me to, like, see them at events because I just don't. I don't even know how to, like, talk to them without, like, not thinking about their Facebook. That pisses me. Let me just. Let me just give you something that I read, which I think is probably a pretty good idea, and that is that when you're. When you're getting ready to talk to somebody who disagrees with you completely and even may live in a different reality than you do, you start off by establishing something that you have in common, right? You could say, well, we're both part of this family, or we're both love living in California or we both love our kids or whatever it is, Right. And you start off realizing that you have something in common, and from there, you can build on that. You follow? I'm saying. Yeah, I. I definitely am of the camp where I don't even, like, bring it up, because I just know that that's. I know. I know. You don't start off by talking about politics. You start. Oh, absolutely not. Yeah, you start. You start off by talking about other things and establishing a rapport. Yeah. And then you go from there. Right. I'm gonna. Guys, I'm gonna show you guys a video later that shows this is the. The situation right after Trump was elected. And there was a lot of people that were anti Trump, and. But there were also a lot of people that were pro Trump. Right. And so there was going to be a demonstration on someplace in Washington. I can't remember exactly where, and it was a pro Trump rally. I forgot what it was. Right. But so the people show up for their pro Trump rally, and then the Black Lives Matter people show up, right? And so they're yelling at each other. Right. Which you would expect. But then something that was unexpected happens, and that is that the leader of the pro Trump rally invited the leader of the Black Lives Matter rally to come on the stage and speak for two minutes, right? And the leader of the Black Lives Matter group went on the stage and just gave a little kind of brief talk about, we don't want to take anything away from you. We want the same thing that you want. And. And just by establishing that commonality, by the end of the day, they were, like, hugging each other and taking pictures with each other's kids and. And that sort of thing. You guys follow what I'm saying here? Yeah, I watched. I remember doing that assignment that was super cool. Yeah. So. So so, again, that's the. That's the thing is that we can. If we all understand that we're all human and we're not. We're not enemies, then we can move forward. Does that make sense to you guys? I think that's what we have to really shoot for. You guys are probably going to think I'm crazy here, if you don't already, but I believe that the way to solve the political problem in the United States is to have election day on July 4th and have a national barbecue. And we all go out and have barbecue and vote. Right. When we're out having barbecue, we'll just have. Will be able to communicate with each other and talk to each other and, you know, enjoy hot dogs and beer and. And we can vote. Right. But we're talking to each other. We're not looking at each other as enemies. You follow what I'm saying? So anyway, so that's. That's what's going to happen when you elect me president. Okay. All right. Any questions or comments about that? You got my vote. Okay. Yeah. Well, I'm starting. This is my campaign, starting right now. Wants to be my campaign manager. I'll try. On page 193, historian Richard Hofstadter is quoted as writing, growth of the mass media of communication and the use in politics have brought politics closer to the people than ever before and have made politics a form of entertainment in which the spectators feel themselves involved. Thus, it has become, more than ever before, an arena into which private emotions and personal problems can be readily projected. Mass communications have made it possible to keep the mass man in an almost constant state of political mobilization. What do you think he means by that? Everyone has access now to voice their own opinion. Right. But. Or how the government has affected their lives. So let me just go ahead. I'm sorry, Kyle, you were going to say something. Yeah, Comment on the. On the entertainment part. I forget which presidency it was, but the same speech was both radio broadcasted and televised. And when people were pulled on which. On who did the better speech, it was debate by Kennedy and Nixon. Yeah. It was exact opposites. Yeah. 1960. So people on the radio thought that Kennedy. That Nixon had won. People who watched it on TV thought that Kennedy had won. Right. But let me just put forward an idea to you guys. There used to be a policy from the United States government called the Fairness Doctrine. And what the Fairness Doctrine said was if you were going to broadcast political statements, you had to broadcast an alternative point of view. Right. And during the 1980s, the Fairness Doctrine was revoked, which meant that anybody could go on, on any electronic medium and say anything they wanted and without having to offer any kind of response. And so that's going to be the rise really of political radio, right? And so here's the thing then. When you get people interested in what you're talking about, think about the Spanish American war and yellow journalism, right? And what was the idea behind yellow journalism? We want to make sure that people are really interested in what we have to say. So we're just going to make up stories that are going to make people interested, right? And then, then the result of that is what? The result of that is that people are listening to what you have to say. So that means you can sell advertising, right? You get what I'm saying? So, so then keeping you in a constant state of political mobilization is worth money to me. Do you follow? I'm saying I don't even have to believe what I'm saying. I mean, look at people like Alex Jones, right? Alex Jones can't possibly believe what he's even saying, right? It's just too far out there. But it doesn't matter because people will listen to him because, because, oh my God, he's right about this, you know what I'm saying? And then what happens is that they make a lot of money on that. Okay? Do you follow what I'm saying here? So that's the beginning, I think, of, of the mass media, of communication and its effect on politics. But it goes further than that because eventually what happens is that the people that are putting out this, cynically putting out this information, this worldview to create, to make money, actually create an audience who believes what they're saying and that translates into a political movement. Do you guys follow what I'm saying? That makes sense. What do you guys think about that? Do you think, you think I'm just being some kind of a wild eyed liberal? No, I definitely agree with that. There's a lot of money to like, there's a lot of money in, in that aspect of like news. And if you're telling, telling news on something that hasn't been told elsewhere, it's very controversial and it's like eye grabbing. I feel like then it, it's gonna work almost every time. So the question, the point I'm trying to make here is that it starts off as being motivated by profit, but then it takes on a life of its own and becomes a political movement. Do you follow what I'm saying here? So the people who are putting the information out there Might not even believe it, but they actually create believers. Yeah. I think in the case of McCarthy, and maybe even Trump isn't part of it also that it put their name out there all the time and made them relevant, not necessarily to get money, but their egos were fed. Yeah, well, I think that that's part of it. I don't know. I got to tell you this. When Trump was president, for the four years that Trump was president, I was on top of the news every day. And since Biden's become president, the news is boring. I got other things to think about. And what does that mean? That means that Trump was generating a lot of attention. You follow what I'm saying? And please, I'm waiting. Huh? I'm sorry, what was the last question to Mini? You have something to say? I was gonna say a lot of the attention came from negative attention. Sure. It wasn't. And like, now all of us, like, how do you say it? People wanted something. They wanted him out of office. So there was a lot more media or attention focus on that situation, and no one's really paying attention to what's happening now. Right. So it's just like, oh, forget and forgive. Like, okay, cool. So here's. Here's the rule of publicity. It doesn't matter what they're saying about you, as long as they're talking about you. You follow what I'm saying here? And so even if you neg. Even if you generate negative attention, you're still generating attention. Yeah. Yeah. So I guess I'm done. Are you guys done? Yeah. Does anybody have any questions or comments? Did you think this was a useful exercise? Oh, yeah. Yeah. How do you guys like the book so far? We're almost done with it. Shit's whack. This is the first book I read. Go ahead. I'm sorry. No, I said it's the first book I've actually read in a long time. So it was kind of a first book. It's like a weird book to start off reading again. It was a little hard to read the way it was written at first, but I feel like it's kind of getting easier than after having read it a few times. I mean, read. Okay. And Tom, you don't like the book. What is it about the book that you don't like, if you don't mind me asking? You don't have to answer that if you don't want. It's made me realize, like, history is very opinionated. Okay, well, it's. That's good. Yeah. So it just Seems like there's not like I'm used to actual facts like, you know, like factoid, like layout plan, like bullet points of this, this, this and this. Not, you know, viewing it from somebody's perspective in a different way. So it's a little harder to grasp. Yeah, History's never like that. Yeah. History is never just the facts. If you want just the facts, read the phone book. They don't even have phone books anymore. Right. But I mean, if the Yellow Pages, you have advertising and stuff, but in the, the phone book, it's just the facts. Right. Is there anything interesting about the phone book? I mean, you can look up family members, see where they're at. That's the only thing. Yeah. Or you see how many people have the same last name as you or something like that. Right. Or the old school way of, you know, Facebook, I guess. Hey, I know this person from class. Let me see. Can I find them their phone number? Call them up, see what's up. Right. You know, but the main thing is that there's really nothing interesting about the phone book. It has its use, obviously, but it's, it's not really something that would grab our attention, generally speaking. And, but when we talk about historical, Remember we've talked about in the class so far about. There's really two aspects of it. I talk about historicity one and historicity two. Right. Historicity one is what happened. Historicity two is what is said to have happened. Right. And, and so the one is a fact. Right. On, on April 15, 1865, Abraham Lincoln was shot by John Booth. Right. What is said to have happened is based on the fact, but it's colored by the bias of the author. Right. So some people will say, okay, yeah, April 15, 1865, Abraham Lincoln was shot by John Wilkes Booth. But that was because there was a conspiracy by the Rothschilds to get rid of him because he was, you know, upsetting to the Jewish world order or something like that. Right. This is real. I'm not, I'm not making this up. You know, people would say that. Okay, yeah. Or, or when we look at, for example, December 7, 1941, Japanese bomb, Pearl Harbor. Right. But that's the fact. But the, but the, the point of view that's put out is that, well, the reason why that happened was because Roosevelt actually knew that it was going to happen, but he wanted Japanese to cause this damage so the United States would enter the war against Germany. Right. That's a conspiracy that people put out there. Right. So when we look at, whenever we read Anything about history. And really, whenever we read anything about anything, we have to be able to discern what is the fact and what is the opinion. Right? Yeah. Do you see what I'm saying? And so it's hard. I think it's hard to read a book where the author has an opinion that differentiates between mine, that differentiates from you. But I also think it's important to be able to do that. It's part of being able to talk to each other. Yeah. So that's the other thing, too, is like, you hear it, you see, like you've heard about this. Now you're coming back and getting this different perspective of it all, like how it's going on and what it was, but it's still pretty much the mind is a malleable thing and anybody can shape it, as you've seen in our politics, no matter what. Trump, he's even did an interview back in the day that says he's going to run for president and I'll win because I'm going to tell the American people what they want to hear and they're going to vote for me. And that's exactly what he did. Do you know Biden does the same thing? You know, everyone does something to one shape the mind or like you said, have that common ground or connection to win popularity, to get their vote. And that's what it comes down to. So do you. Do you know how the. During the Vietnam War, the Vietnamese, North Vietnamese took many Americans prisoner, and they would get these Americans to go on TV and denounce the United States. Do you know how they, how they did that? Yep. They would start off by saying, well, the United States isn't perfect, is it? Well, no, it's not perfect. Right. And then you go from there and you build on that idea. Right. Yeah. Do you follow what I'm saying? So be. You have to be very careful about what little bit of light you let put into your, into your mind and, and how you, how you process it. Yeah. What was. There's a quote, I guess, by Hamilton. Right. If you don't stand for something, you'll fall for anything. Yeah. Nobody knows who said that at first, but I remember it from Barry Goldwater. If you don't stand for something, you'll fall for anything. Yeah. All right, I'm gonna let you guys go. I. I hope that you found this to be interesting and useful in thinking about the importance of history. And I'll see you guys on Wednesday. I just want to remind you, you're going to post that extra credit assignment. Right, I'll do that. Just send me an email. Otherwise I'll forget. Okay, cool. Also, the study guide. I did. Yeah, I put that up. Have a good one. Live long and prosper. You too. I. I put the study guide up, I think. Sure I did. Okay, let me just. Are you seeing the screen here? Yes, right there. Okay. I guess I usually get a notification. I didn't get one, so I didn't. I don't know. I just put it on there, that's all. All right, you guys have a good one. I'll see you Wednesday. Professor Windsor, office hours again, one to two. One or two. Also, I don't know if you saw in the chat earlier, I was assigned group two, but I woke up, like, the day of the class. The test. I woke up late and got in class super late. And I was like, oh, it's over. Like, no one's here. And then I went back and saw that we were in groups, so I joined group one because there's only three people in it. So I. I was supposed to be group two, but I joined group one because of how many people are in it, and I did my assignment with them and submitted with them, but somebody submitted group two for me, like, even the final. So I just didn't want to take credit for group two stuff when. Yeah, I have to. My group one. Okay, well, we'll. I'll deal with that when I actually go through the grading. Okay, so then do you want me to respond because I'm in group twos on the peer review. Yeah, I. I'll. I'll. I'll think of some way to. To deal with that. Let me send you an email. Oh, no, no. I'll figure it out. Okay. Pretty sure if I don't, then, you know, if you end up with a zero on the midterm, then you obviously want to squeak, right? Yeah, but I doubt that that's going to happen because we've talked. All right. Okay. All right, sounds good. Thanks, Professor. I'll see you on Wednesday. All right, peace out.