Sa no one likes us. I don't know why. We may not be perfect but heaven knows we try. But all around. Even our old friends put us down. Let's drop the big one and see what happened. We give them money but are they grateful? No, they're spiteful and they're hateful. They don't respect us so let's surprise them. We'll drop the big one pulverized. Asia's crowded. Europe's too old. Africa's far too hot and Canada's too cold. South America stole our name. Let's drop the big one. There'll be no one left to blame us. We'll save Australia. Don't wanna hurt no kangaroo. We'll build an all American amusement park. They got surfing too. Boom goes London. Boom. Perry. More room for you and more room for me. In every city the whole world round will just be another American town. Oh, how peaceful it will be. We set everybody free. You wear Japanese Komodo baby To be Italian shoes for me. They all hate us anyhow. So let's drop the big one now. Let's drop the big one now. Do you guys like my song? Do you know why I played that song today? Because we're learning about the atomic bombing. Actually, no, we've already learned about that. We're talking about the second part of the Cold War and kind of the sense of American exceptionalism. I guess it's kind of a tongue in cheek song. I thought it was kind of cute. Any questions or comments about anything up to now? One thing that you guys should be doing is notice. Tomorrow I will make available the peer reviews for the exams and I'd like for you guys to finish those up quickly so that I can go ahead and grade those exams. We just leave that at that. Any questions? Comments that I can help you with about anything? Are you gonna post the exam to study guide soon? Oh, yeah, yeah, I am. Okay, I'll do that as soon as we're done with this call. I'll do it. Okay, sounds good. Okay. Any other questions or comments? All right, let's go ahead and I'm going to go ahead and share the screen. We're going to move on and talk about our continue talking about the Cold War. Right. Do you guys see the screen now? The. Okay, so. So remember that we talked about the Cold War. And one of the major points that I brought up about the Cold War was that the Cold war happened between 1945 and really about 1992 or three. And the. @ the same time, there was another Phenomenon or. Or process happening in the world. Does anybody remember what that other process was? Decolonization. Exactly. Decolonization. And that means that all the formerly colonized countries, or almost all the formerly colonized countries became independent sometime between 1945 and 1965. Okay. And so while the consequence of decolonization was to create a large number of very poor countries who are struggling with the effects of colonialism. And all of that is happening in the context of this ideological struggle between the United States and the Soviet Union. And what we're going to do today is we're going to actually show two different examples of that, of that. Of that, I guess, the confluence of events. And I'm going to start with Cuba, and then I'm going to talk about. I'm going to start talking about Vietnam. Okay, so before I get started, any questions, comments about anything? All right. Well, you guys will recall that we talked about Cuba a bit earlier when we were talking about imperialism. And we talked about how the United States, at the beginning of the war, Spanish American War, declared that it had no interest in annexing Cuba. That the American involvement in the Spanish American War was simply to assist the independence movement in Cuba. And that was. That was stated in what becomes known as the Teller Amendment. But then you'll also recall that at the end of the war, the United States actually created a constitution for Cuba and at the same time declared in another amendment, the Platt Amendment, that the United States had the right to intervene in Cuba anytime that the Cuban government acted in a way that was irresponsible. So what would be a way that the Cuban government could act irresponsibly and. And trigger American involvement? What do you guys think? Being communist or having nuclear warheads, that's. That's not exactly what they had in mind. They didn't have nuclear warheads in 1902. Oh. Oh, I didn't hear that. My bad. So what do you. Or it really didn't have communists then, either. But what. What. How do you think that. What do you think that means? That the United States can decide how the government of Cuba could act in an irresponsible way. Do you guys remember that part of the reason why the United States got involved in Cuba was because of the sugar industry? That the Americans actually owned the sugar fields and the sugar processing plants, and that the unrest in Cuba before the Spanish American war was creating problems for American businessmen. And so the American businessmen were lobbying to get the Americans involved in Cuba to establish some stability so that they could continue to make money. Right. And what ended up happening was that after the war was over, the United States then continues to dominate the Cuban economy. So that's what we would call before we had mentioned, we called it economic imperialism, that the United States, theoretically, that Cuba actually rules itself, is sovereign, but at the same time, the United States controls its economy because American business interests control the sugar fields. And that's the major export of Cuba, its monostaple economy. Right. And so what that means then is that the United States supports men who are theoretically elected to office, but who also support the rights of American business interests. And if those interests are threatened, then the United States can send in troops. And that would be what it meant to be irresponsible. Irresponsible would mean basically the idea of nationalizing the sugar industry. Because what had happened was that because the Americans owned the sugar fields and the sugar industry, there was a movement among some people in Cuba to take those assets away from American business and nationalize them so that the profits from the sugar industry wouldn't go to American business owners, but to the Cuban people. You guys are following me here. One of these people was named Fidel Castro. And the one thing that we want to know about Fidel Castro is that he was not a communist, okay? He was a nationalist, an economic nationalist. And what that meant was that he believed that the government of Cuba should act for the benefit of the people of Cuba and not for the benefit of. Of American business interests, but American. Excuse me, I'm sorry, here, American. American government actually supports a number of different dictators in Cuba, so long as they play ball with the American business interests. You guys are following me here. Questions? Comments? Okay, so. So there actually there was a kind of, a little bit of a rebellion in Cuba in the 1920s, and Castro was. Was arrested and eventually got out of jail and went to Mexico. But then he's going to. To look for. He's going to try another invasion, another takeover of the Cuban government in the 1950s. And what ends up happening is that he ends up fighting a guerrilla war from the hills. And eventually that guerrilla war will be successful. What, what happens is that there is a. I forgot the name of the dictator, whoever was in Bautista, Juan Bautista was in control of Cuba. And it became obvious to Americans that Bautista was no longer in control. And so the Americans abandoned support of Bautista. He went into exile, and Castro then came to power. And the American government initially supported Castro because they said, well, you can be, you know, Bautista was our guy, but now you can be our guy. But the problem was that, that Fidel didn't want to play along. All right? And he was serious about nationalizing the sugar industry. He had a, he had a, one of his, his kind of right hand men. An advisor was a man named Ernesto Guevara, who you probably know as Che. Che Guevara. Right. And he was an Argentine doctor, but he was a committed socialist. Castro was not a communist or socialist. Castro was actually against the Communist Party. He refused to allow the Communist Party to participate in the government that he established in Cuba. But his idea of nationalizing the sugar industry was really seen by many as a socialist, a movement towards Marxism kind of in a way. Right, so what happens then is that Castro alienates the American government because he's in favor of nationalizing the sugar industry. And from the American point of view, nationalizing the sugar industry is communism. Okay. And remember what we talked about on Monday. If Americans see communism anywhere, who's behind it? Russia. Russia, exactly. In this case, Russia was not behind it and Castro was not a communist. But if your enemy in the 1960s is the United States, then who's your friend? Russia. Russia, exactly. And so what happens is that the United States declares an embargo against Cuba, basically saying, we're not going to buy your sugar anymore, which is devastating to the Cuban economy because that's all the money that they make is by selling sugar to America. And instead what happens is that the Russian government comes in and says, okay, we're going to support your, your sugar industry, we're going to give you subsidies for your sugar industry, but you have to say that you're a Communist and you have to have a communist government. Right. And so Castro at that point then says, okay, I'm a Communist, I've always been a Communist and I will always be a Communist. Even though historically he wasn't a Communist. Right. So why did he all of a sudden now say that he was a Communist? Because. Oh, sorry. Because he had Russian support. And in order to get that Russian support. Yeah, so. So instead of the United States supporting economic independence for Cuba, they essentially drove them into the arms of the Soviets. You follow what I'm saying? And I should say this, that the Soviet presence in Cuba wasn't necessarily good for the Cuban people, but nevertheless, the fact that it falls into the Russian orbit was based on the misconception of Americans that communism was associated only with the Soviet Union. You guys are with me. Questions, Comments about that. All right, so, so now what happens is we're, I'm not going to go into the Bay of Pigs. Although the, the Bay of Pigs, you. You can look it up. It's in the book. The, the thing about the Bay of Pigs was it demonstrated to the world essentially that the United States was willing to use military force to overthrow Castro. And then as a result of that, the Soviets start to install nuclear missiles in Cuba. Okay, the, the thing about the nuclear missiles in Cuba is that these missiles were in position where you can see this big red circle here, right? They. They could have devastated all of these American cities, including Washington, D.C. okay, the reality of the situation, which is often overlooked, is that the Americans, the United States, had missiles in Turkey pointed at the Soviet Union that were in range of Moscow. Right? And so the Soviets had been trying for years to get the Americans to remove those missiles. And they saw this as an opportunity to leverage that desire by installing missiles in Cuba. The idea being they installed the missiles in Cuba. And now if the United States demands that those missiles be removed, then the Soviets will demand that American missiles are removed from Turkey. You guys follow what I'm saying here? This makes sense to you guys? Do you guys know about this? Yeah, I remembered it was like a failed invasion of the baby pigs. And that kind of like set everyone off and, like, scared. Right? Okay, so. So now what happens then is that the United States learns about these missile installations by satellite, essentially by spy satellite. Right. Or spy airplanes. And instead of going to war over it, President Kennedy actually declares an embargo around Cuba. This is the exclusion zone right here, the kind of the purplish area, right. And basically says that any ship that crosses into this exclusion zone is subject to destruction. And what that's aimed at is the, the material coming from Russia to Cuba to support these missiles. Right? And, and so there was a standoff. The standoff lasted for about a week. And it basically was that the United States and the Soviet Union were on the brink of a nuclear war. And it was a very real possibility. And this is one of the reasons why, when you guys read the book the Good War, and the last story in there was about the street corner kids and how they were afraid that they weren't going to live long enough to have. Have lives because of the nuclear weapons, right? This is, this is what contributed to that. Americans were terrified of nuclear weapons. Really everybody in the world was at the time. Right. Okay. So anyway, eventually what happens is that what Kennan had predicted, you guys remember the long telegram from Monday? And what Kennan had predicted was that if you go toe to toe with the Russians all the way up to the brink of war, that they would back down. And that's exactly what happened. So they get right to the brink of war and. And Khrushchev decides to pull the missiles out of Cuba. What. Another thing that's little known is that when Khrushchev removed the missiles from Cuba, the United States also removed its missiles from Turkey. And that was actually a quid pro quo, but it wasn't. It wasn't advertised. Right. So it made it look like Russia had backed down. And that's just the way history records it. But the main point here in terms of talking about Cuba is that the whole issue was created by the fact that the United States saw the Soviets where they weren't, because for the Americans, communism was a monolithic world movement based in Moscow. And, and they could not imagine that any other country would be. Would opt for communism without encouragement from the Soviet Union. You guys are with me. And so basically then the whole thing was created by that miss. Characterizing communism in Cuba as part of the Cold War. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Does that make sense to you guys? All right. Okay, so let's. I'm going to move on from there. We could go. We could spend a long time on that, but we're gonna. We're gonna move on from there, and we're gonna go to the other side of the world. Okay. And what happens, we're going to look at Southeast Asia and this area here, it's. I. I can't see it because of my stupid thing here, but basically all this area here that includes what we today call north and South Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos were French Southeast Asia or. Or Indochina. French Indochina. Right. And it was. It was ruled essentially as a colonial holding of the French until World War II. All right? And in World War II, what happened was that close to the end of the war. Well, actually, the Japanese invaded Southeast Asia at the beginning of the war, but they allowed the French Vichy regime, the regime that was a puppet to Hitler, to allow. They allowed them to continue to rule Vietnam until about a year before the end of the war, at which point then the Japanese ousted the French and established their own control over all of this area, including north and South Vietnam. Okay? When the war was over, the Japanese were evicted essentially from Vietnam from this whole area, which left a power vacuum because the Japanese were evicted, but the French weren't allowed to return until sometime later. And the result was that there was a movement in. In Vietnam led by a guy named Ho Chi Minh, and he formed a. A group called the Viet Minh. And the Viet Minh were a nationalist movement in, in Vietnam. Okay, so now just to talk a little bit about Ho Chi Minh. He was, he was actually, he, he was in France at the time of the Versailles Conference and like a number of other people from colonized areas of the world, he was very excited about Wilson's idea of national self determination. You'll recall that One of the 14 points was that that the, every country should be allowed to choose for itself how it was going to be governed as long as it was democracy. Right. And, and, but he became disappointed because he wrote a letter to Wilson and actually went out and rented a suit and tried to meet Wilson. Was, he was never, the letter was never got to Wilson and he never was able to meet with him. And the outcome of the Treaty of Versailles was to reinforce colonialism rather than to do away with it, as we've already mentioned. And the result of that then was that he, Ho Chi Minh decided to go to Moscow to join a group called the Comintern. That's C O M I N T E R N Comintern and it means Communist International. Right. The Communist International was a branch of the Soviet government that was set up to export communism. Right. And after World War II, this Communist International was active in many places in the world, including Southeast Asia, with the idea of supporting local via independence movements against the colonial powers. Right. But when they did support them, they were supporting them with the idea that they were going to establish communist states going along with the idea, the, the Marxist idea that communism can't work anywhere until it actually works everywhere. Right. Okay. So, so it's kind of, it's very much like what happened in, in Cuba with Castro, where Ho Chi Minh is nominally a communist and he's receiving support from both Russia and China. But his writings show us that he was more of a nationalist than he was a communist. Right. So, so at any rate, Ho Chi Minh and his group, the Viet Minh, step into the void that was created by the, the withdrawal of the Japanese forces and declares a republic in Vietnam. And this republic then is actually inclusive of all of Vietnam. All right? And when he does that, as basically the Declaration of Independence of Vietnam was based on the American Declaration of Independence. And when, when the Vietnamese declared independence, they actually appealed to the President of the United States. I'm not going to read this now, but you should know it's there. Right? You can go look at it. Right. Appealed to President Truman to support their, their movement towards independence because he compared it to the American movement towards independence. From British colonialism. You guys follow what I'm saying here, okay? So the problem is going to be this because Ho Chi Minh has been active in the Comintern and everybody knows that. How is Truman going to respond to him? Not gonna trust him. He's an enemy because he's a communist, right? Anywhere we see communism, we see an enemy, right? So. So even though we can argue that Ho Chi Minh intended to establish some kind of a government independent of the communist bloc in Vietnam, the United States wouldn't refuse to recognize it. And as a result of that, then the United States then supports French colonialism. Okay, the return of French colonialism. The French return. They tried to re. Establish their control over this entire area. They're not able to do it because of the kind of guerrilla warfare that's being waged by Ho Chi Minh. So what ends up happening is that the forces of Ho Chi Minh are going to be predominant in the north, and the French colonial forces will be predominantly in the south. And there will be a, there will be a, a kind of a puppet government. There was an emperor, the Emperor Bao Dai, who actually wasn't in Vietnam. He was in France. Right. But he was, in theory, the, the, the, the ruler of Vietnam. And then there was a president, Ngo Dinh Diem, who was a puppet of the, of the kind of colonialist government, the French colonial government. The problem with no DND was that nobody liked him. The people didn't like him. He, he was, he was, in fact, he was kind of a brutal guy. He ended up killing or, or excluding everybody that didn't follow him, agree with him. And there were a lot of, a lot of different independence movement groups in Vietnam that were not, were not communist. Right. But, or, excuse me. Yeah. That were not communist, But Diem alienated them all. And so Diem was never able to fully establish control of. Over the south, and Ho Chi Minh had full control over the North. Okay, so what happens then is that this guerrilla warfare goes on for some period of time. The French are able to convince the Americans that the conflict in Vietnam is similar to the conflict in Korea. And because the United States was fighting an anti communist war in Korea, then the United States was willing and open to providing support for the French in south. In Vietnam. With the idea being that we're going to stop the spread of communism. Remember the Truman Doctrine, we're going to stop the spread of, of communism. Right. Okay. So in reality, they were not, they were not the same. They weren't driven by the same ideas or the same Actors. But from the American point of view, this crusade against communism was almost a holy cause. And one of the things that. Well, I should say it this way, if we go Back to the 1950s, if you asked an American what was Saigon, they would tell you it was something to eat. Right. They knew so little about Southeast Asia that they didn't even know that there was a city in Asia called Saigon. Right. And, and, but when they found out that the Americans were opposing communism there, then Americans were 100% for it. Okay, we need to keep that in mind. Americans were very much on board with the idea of American support for the French in Vietnam. And what happens is that as the, as the war drags on, the French people are going to become weary of this anti colonial war. All right? In Vietnam, the war was not, it was not a war between democracy and communism. It was a war between the colonialists and the anti colonialists. Right? And the French people were, were basically engaged in trying to defend their empire in other places in the world as well, including Algeria, where there's a big war going on there. And the French people start to, to question whether or not they should even be involved in this. And so the French lose, they, they lose their enthusiasm for fighting and re establishing their colonial control over Vietnam. But the Americans keep, keep supplying things and keep encouraging them to continue the fight. Because from the American point of view, it's this bigger view, it's this bigger fight against, against communism. It's just not a matter of colonialism. So what we really see end up happening is that the United States, rather than being a beacon of independence, becomes the empire supporting the colonialists. You follow what I'm saying here? Okay, so, so what happens then is that there's. The Americans keep encouraging the French and the French keep saying, no, no, no, we don't want to have any more to do with this. And eventually what ends up happening is that there was a big battle in a place called Dien Bien Phu, which is here. And the Vietnamese roundly defeat the French and their army at Dien Bien Phu. And then shortly after that, there are peace talks in Geneva and the French and the Vietnamese agree to an end to the war. Okay. And the end of the war, basically the outcome is going to be that the French are going to withdraw. They're going to divide Vietnam into two. Oh, I shoot. Wrong. They're going to divide Vietnam into two. The north will be ruled by Ho Chi Minh and the Viet Minh. The south will be ruled by Ngo Dinh Diem and his followers. And that in 1956. This is 1954. Right. In 1956, there will be elections. And whoever wins the elections will rule all of Vietnam. Okay, so the election essentially would be between Ho Chi Minh and no Din Diem. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Okay, well, here's the problem. The problem is that Ho Chi Minh is very popular throughout Vietnam. He's kind of seen as the George Washington of Vietnam. And he. If he is a communist, he really downplays it, right? He. He could say, yeah, well, we're going to be communists, but maybe not for 100 years. It might take us 100 years to get there. Right? And so people in the south are not afraid of. Of Ho Chi Minh because they don't see communism the same way Americans see communism. Right? And so the reality is that if they actually did hold elections in 1956, that. That ho Chi Minh would win. And so the United States saw that as. As a real danger. And what ends up happening is that the United States convinces Ngo Dinh Diem to stop the elections. Okay, let's just stop right there, because I'm going to go to the next slide. Any questions or comments about any of this? I had a. You said that Truman didn't trust who? You said Truman didn't trust somebody. Ho Chi Minh. Okay, thank you. You guys got this. Are you guys following this story here? Okay. Yes. So let's go to the next page here, because this is where the United States really starts to get involved, right? So the United States convinces Diem to stop the elections in 1956 because it becomes obvious that if they do hold the election, that Ho Chi Minh would be elected, and that would mean that Vietnamese would become communist. And that's something that the United States doesn't want to allow. And so they stopped the elections. And as a result of that, the Vietnam North Vietnamese claim that the south has broken the deal that they made at the Geneva Accords and they invade South Vietnam. Right? And so then the South Vietnam is going to be fighting a war against North Vietnam. And at the same time, there's the development of another group in South Vietnam called the National Liberation Front, otherwise known as the Viet Cong. And the Viet Cong are going to be communist sympathizers who are allied with North Vietnam. So not only are they fighting a war against the North Vietnamese army, which is being supplied by the Chinese and the Russians, but they're also fighting a war, a guerrilla war, against the Viet Cong who are not recognizable because they don't have. They're not, they're not a, an established force. They're just terrorists, essentially. Right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? All right. Okay. So. So what's going to happen then is there will be so much unrest in Vietnam, South Vietnam, that no Din. Diem will be. No din. Diem will be. Basically lose control of the country, and the United States will start looking for an alternative to Diem because they, they want to establish a government in Vietnam that would be popular enough to defeat Ho Chi Minh. As it happens, there is no, there is no alternative to Jim because Jim has, has removed all of the, all of his opposition. And so what ends up happening then is that the United States is faced with a dilemma. If they abandon Diem, then there's a real chance that the south would fall to communism, which would be seen as a blow to American Cold War strategy, I should say, if they abandon the government of Vietnam. But if they don't. If they, if they, if they. So if they don't intervene in Vietnam, it's going to be obvious that, that the south will fall. You guys follow? I'm saying. So, so now there's going to be a, a coup conspiracy led by generals of the South Vietnamese army, which the, the idea was that. That they promised. They went to Kennedy, President Kennedy, and proposed to him that they would get rid of Diem and they'd establish a new government with a new president. And Kennedy endorsed that plan with the caveat that if they, when the generals took over, that they would just get rid of Diem and they wouldn't hurt anybody else. What ends up happening is, is that the generals take over and they kill Diem and his whole family. Right? And at this point, then Kennedy orders a review of American policy in Vietnam. And some people will argue that he was ready to abandon Vietnam. I don't think that that's true, but at least that's what people will say. We don't know whether or not it's true because before the review was finished, Kennedy had been killed. Right. At any rate. Questions or comments so far? So now we have basically Vietnam with almost no government, and, and, and the. They're on the verge of collapse based on the movements of the North Vietnamese army and also the Viet Cong. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? And, and up to this point, the Americans have been supporting the South Vietnamese. And one of the ways that they did that was by blockading the approach to North Vietnam with the American Navy. What's going to end up happening is that there's going to Be. I should say it this way, that the United States is looking for an alternative, a way to intervene in Vietnam. And that incident is going to happen here in 1963. And. And, excuse me, in 1964, in what's August of 1964, which is in an incident called the Gulf of Tonkin incident. Okay? This is the Gulf of Tonkin right here. And what happened in the Gulf of Tonkin was that there was a. An American destroyer, the Maddox, which was patrolling. And in fact, they were doing more than just patrolling. They were actually supporting South Vietnamese military activity in North Vietnam. But they reported that they had been attacked, that they had been attacked by two gunboats. And then. And then the following, I think two days later, they reported that they were being under attack from some radar, whatever they call them, on radar. The. The see an attack coming on radar. And. And as. As it later turned out, there were actually American airplanes in the sky at the time, and the American pilots reported there was no activity. So whatever that the sailors on the Maddox saw, it probably wasn't an attack. But nevertheless, the report of the attack is going to be enough to convince President Johnson to ask the United States Congress to. For money to start to oppose communism in North Vietnam. So this is going to be called the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution, right? That basically what ends up happening is Johnson asked for money to fight against communism in Vietnam. The Congress is basically going to give him a blank check saying whatever it takes. Okay? And I want you guys to know this, that in 1964, when the United States declared that it was going to send troops to Vietnam, the American people were almost 100% behind it. Okay? The. The. The resolution in Congress to provide funds to fight the war in Vietnam was almost unanimous. There was only one abstention. Okay, you guys get me here. So, so the reason why it's important for me to point this out is because in 1964, 1965, Americans are all for the war in Vietnam, but by 1968, Americans are going to be all against it, and we're going to wonder why. Okay, we'll talk about that on a different day. Okay. Questions? Comments so far? All right, so then the United States then. Then introduces troops. They start actually a bombing campaign called Operation Rolling Thunder, which is going to continue to drop bombs on North Vietnam for basically the next 10 years, right? Almost continuously. And at the same time, eventually the United States introduced troops, and By July of 1965, there's 100, 100,000American troops. And then by late 19, by 1968, there's almost 500,000American troops in. In South Vietnam. Okay. With the idea being that they were going to try to stop communism in Vietnam. All right, questions? Comments about this? You said that Operation Rolling Thunder lasted for 10 years. You said 10 years of bombing. Right. They. They weren't. They actually didn't. It was probably not exactly 10 years, but it lasted until right before the, the signing of the Paris accords, which was 1973, I think. Okay, thank you. Any questions? Any other questions or comments? I'm going to actually just leave it right there. We're going to pick this up later. What we're going to do starting after. On Monday, we're going to be discussing the book, chapters five and six of the Meacham book. Right. So you should be ready for that. And then, then we'll start talking about civil rights after that, and then we'll come back to this closer to the end of the course. Questions? Comments? I just had a comment. It's kind of off topic, but I watched something the other day that was saying the result of the Cold War, like a lot of the pilots and people that were fighting for Russia when the Russia fell, they essentially went to other parts of the world and, like, helped out in other conflicts. So it was very interesting to see, like, the results of the Cold War, like, what it did to the rest of the world. Yeah, well, yeah, the Cold War actually ends up being a very destructive period. And so I think it's really not really aptly named the Cold War because that gives it the impression that there really wasn't a huge consequence, but it has really changed everything in the world. Any other comments or questions? Thank you for that, Chris. I can't read that far away. All right, you guys, I have a question about something on the syllabus. Okay. So I was going through it because I'm trying to plan for something else, and there was something on it that said there was a syllabus extra credit. I don't remember seeing that before. Did I completely miss it? No, actually, there isn't anything on the syllabus. Syllabus about the syllabus extra credit there. I used to do an extra credit for the syllabus, but that was at the very beginning of the class. And. Or maybe I did put it in there, but I took it out this time. I didn't put it in. It's under assignments. You know, like that. The part of the canvas that says assignments. Oh, yeah, it's not there anymore. I took it out. I think if I didn't I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it right now. Okay, so it's not a thing. It's not a thing. But I will give you guys more extra credit, though. I just have to come up with something quickly here. All right, guys are all good. Have a good weekend. Don't do anything I wouldn't do. Live long and prosper. Thank you. Bye, Professor. Thank you.