There is mean things happening in this land There is mean things happening in this land oh, the rich man boasts and brags While the poor man goes in rags There is mean things happening in this land There is mean things happening in this land There is mean things happening in this land Too much cotton in our sacks so we have none on our backs There is mean things happening in this land There is mean things happening in this land There is mean things happening in this land Too much groceries on the shelves so we have none for ourselves There is mean things happening in this land There is mean things happening in this land There is mean things happening in this land oh, the rich man boasts and brags while the poor man goes and rags There is mean things happening in this land do you guys like my song? It's. It was actually a song from the era of the Great Depression, and I guess it sets the stage for what we're going to talk about today. Before I get started, are there any questions about anything I can help you with? You guys are all. You're on track. You know what we're doing. I think that. Let me just take a look here. Let me make sure that all of our. Let me just go ahead and share this with you guys. This is our. Our canvas page and. Oh, okay. Yeah, this is wrong. I need to change this. We're going to. This is actually due on Monday. Next Monday. Okay. So let me go ahead and edit that right now. My other class showed that to me earlier. Let me just mention to you guys that if the date on the syllabus doesn't match the date on canvas, you should let me know so I can fix it. But generally speaking, the date it's on the syllabus will be the day that we're gonna be going by. And also I'm going to change my policy on. On late work. I'm not sure exactly how I'm going to do it yet, but I. This doing in email. My email is completely unmanageable. I logged into my email this morning and I had 130 unread messages, and there's more now, and I can't keep up with it. So I'm going to. I'm going to do something different with the. With the late work, but I'm not sure exactly what yet. So I'm going to work on that today, and that should be online sometime today. Okay. So. But I will let you know that it's going to be in your favor. It'll be for your benefit, not mine. All right, Questions, Comments? Anything I can help you with? Today we're going to talk about the Great Depression. Can you see the, the Great Depression on the screen right now? The. Okay, the Great Depression is something that it's hard to, to give a definitive answer about how the United States entered into the Great Depression and how the United States dealt with the Great Depression because it still has a lot of effect on American politics today. And so there's different political viewpoints that, that speak about the Great Depression and the New Deal differently today. Generally speaking, the Democrats look to the New Deal as kind of a beacon and as a blueprint for government. And Republicans look at the New Deal as a slide towards socialism. Right. So I'm gonna. I'll actually. You'll probably figure out that I have a little bit of bias in that. But the main thing is to let you know that there is that argument that some people are still very much against the New Deal. I think that you may or may not remember the last speaker of the House. His name was Paul Ryan. Right. And he said that since he was in college, it had been his ambition to dismantle the New Deal. Okay. So I see. It really shows us that it's still something that's prevalent in American politics. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to do a kind of a 50,000 foot overview, an airplane view of it. I'm not going to try to go into the different things that happen because it's very complex. All right? But I think we can get a good feeling for how the Great Depression started by looking at this diagram that I made. Okay. Notice that the diagram is called the Great Debt Balloon. All right, So I would mention to you guys that if you're going to take notes on this diagram, make sure you draw the balloon in there, okay? Because the balloon's gonna be important. All right. Questions? Comments? All right, let's think back then to the end of World War I. What was the document that ended World War I? The Treaty of Versailles. Treaty of Versailles. Okay. Now the Treaty of Versailles, as we mentioned last week when we talked about it, was ended up being a punitive treaty, right? Meaning that Britain, France were concerned to make sure that Germany was never able to threaten them again. And so they made punitive provisions in the document, like dividing Germany up, like taking away part of its industrial heartland and also imposing on Germany reparations. The argument was that Germany was forced to concede that they were fully responsible for the war and therefore they should be fully responsible for paying for the war. The Problem with that was a. Germany wasn't fully responsible for the war. But the, the other part of it was that when they signed the treaty, what the treaty said was, okay, you owe us reparations for the full cost of the war, but we haven't figured out what that is yet, so we'll let you know later. Right. We'll send you a bill. And they did. Right. But the problem with the bill was the bill was enormous, and it was meant to be that way because it was meant to keep the German economy crippled so that they could no longer threaten Britain and France. You guys are following me here. Questions? Comments? All right. Okay. Now let's think about the Treaty of Versailles. What was the American reaction to the Treaty of Versailles? You guys remember, wasn't it. Wasn't it hard to ratify at first? Because the Senate didn't want it at first. It was at first. And. And also, what, forever. The United States never ratified. Right? Yeah, that's. That's right. That's right. The United States didn't ratify the Treaty of Versailles, which meant that United States wasn't owed reparations by Germany because it wasn't part of the treaty. Right. And the United States signed a separate treaty with all the different warring powers in the. In the. That the United States was at war with. Okay? But during the war, Britain and France had gone deeply into debt. Okay? The reason for this is because unlike what most people believe, that war is good for the economy. Actually, war is terrible for the economy. And the reason why was because after about a year and a half of war, Britain and France ran out of money. And then they. But they still wanted to prosecute the war, and that meant they still needed to buy things to prosecute the war. And so what they did was they borrowed money. And where they borrowed the money from was in the United States. They didn't borrow money from the American government, but they borrowed money from corporations in the United States. You guys follow what I'm saying here? All right, so what that meant was that at the end of the war, Britain and France were deep in debt to the United States, and Germany was deep in debt to Britain and France. Okay, you guys following here? All right, so now, because the United States had been allied with Britain and France at the end of the war, Britain and France thought that the United States shouldn't. Shouldn't force them to pay their debts, but the debts weren't owed to the United States. The debts were owed to American corporations. And so that would be like. It would be kind of like me saying, well, I got a cousin that works at Capital One, so I shouldn't have to pay for my credit card, right? But that's not how it works, okay? And so Britain and France were forced to pay back their loans that they'd paid to the United States. Let me just mention here, right? We talked about how many people believe that war is good for the economy, right? But what had happened was that Britain and France had invested huge amounts of money in war material. What's wrong with that? You can only use it for war, right? You use it for war. And then what happens to war material? Generally, it gets destroyed, right? I mean, that's the whole point of war, is to break things, right? So, so the point here is that Britain and France are, are investing huge amounts of money on stuff that's going to be destroyed, okay? It would be kind of like if you decided to go down to Mission Valley and buy an Escalade, right? Borrow, say, $50,000 to buy an Escalade and then drove the Escalade off the end of the pier, right? At the, at the end, you wouldn't have an Escalade, but you would have, what, a debt, right? You'd have a huge debt that you had to pay for something that no longer existed. So that would be very much like taking your money and putting it in a trash can and lighting it on fire. You see what I'm saying? And, and that's, that's the problem then with, with the idea that war is good for the economy. War is always bad for the economy because war destroys the national resources, okay? The only people that war is good for are arms merchants, essentially, right? Arms merchants make a killing. People that can make money off selling people, selling things to people that are making war will make a killing, literally and figuratively. But, but the, the country itself will always go into debt. So the, the economy never, I should say the country never benefits from going to war. It's always, it's always bad news, right? Economically. All right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Okay, so, alrighty, at any rate, we have Britain and France owing huge amounts of money to the United States, and we have Germany owing huge amounts of money to Britain and France. And, and Americans insist that Britain and France have to pay up. So Britain and France then will insist that Germany has to pay up, okay? The, the one thing about this whole situation is that all of the industrial economies in the world except the United States had collapsed, right? So Britain and France didn't have any money and they didn't have any way to make money. Germany didn't have any money, and it didn't have any way to make any money. Essentially, all the money in the world was in the United States. Okay. And so Britain and France say to Germany, you better pay up or else we're going to invade Germany. Germany doesn't have any money, doesn't have any way of making any money. So if you owe a debt and you don't have any money, what do you do? They print more money. Well, printing money doesn't work. They did. Yeah, I know that. That's what they do, though. Printing money doesn't work. So if you're really going to pay back what you owe and how are you going to get the money? Well, you can't rob a bank, Right? You have to get loans from other countries. Okay? You have to get loans. Now, in this scenario, if I'm Germany, who am I going to borrow money from? The people with all the money. The U.S. the United States. Exactly. And what happens is that the United States passes laws making it legal to lend money to Germany. So the United States corporations are lending money to Germany who are paying reparations to Britain and France who take that money and pay it back in war loan payments to corporations in the United States. So corporations in the United States are making a killing because they're getting interest on the loans to Germany and interest on loans to Britain and France. You guys are all with me. Questions, comments? Okay. And the reason why this works is because of the bull market. All right, now what does that mean? A bull market is when the prices on the stock market continue to rise. Okay, this. The prices on the stock market continue to rise. Well, what does that mean? And just bear with me here for a second because I want to try and draw a picture for you guys. Okay? And it's going to be kind of clunky because I got to do it on this iPad thing, which doesn't really work that well, but I'm going to give it a shot anyway. Right. And okay, let me. Do you see a white screen now? You guys see white screen. Let me see if this will work. Yeah. Okay, so. So when you're thinking about the stock market, there's two different numbers that you think of. You think of price and value, Right? And price is what the stock. What you're willing to pay for the stock value is what the stock's actually worth. Okay, we don't see anything on the screen yet. It's just white still. Well, that's odd. Oh, I. Sorry. I Told you it's going to be clunky, but I'll figure it out. I had it working once today, so that means I can do it again. Now, do you see a white screen there? Do you see a screen value written on it? Price and value. Okay. Yep. Now let's see what happens when I try to do this again. All right, so your price is how much you're willing to pay for the stock, and value is what the stock's actually worth. Right. And what we're going to do is we're going to look at the price and value of stocks on the American stock market over a period of time, which is the 1920s. Right. So we're going to do that with a graph. You guys see me drawing a graph? It doesn't look like a graph. It looks more like a. I don't know, whatever. But at any rate, it's a graph. Okay? Do you see it? Do you see the two lines I just drew? Okay. All right, so now there's. What we're gonna do is that this is gonna be the money going up, and then going this way is going to be time. All right? So we could say, okay, starting in 1920. And we're just gonna put a couple other dates here. 1927 and 1929. Right. Okay. So now over this period of time, we see the price of the stocks going up and up and up and up, right. Until about 1927. Whatever. It should work, but it's not. All right? So Anyway, until about 1927, then it's going to level off. Okay. But at the same time, we're going to see the value of the stocks increase, but at a much lower rate. Okay? And the significance of this is that, is that the people are paying more for the stock than it's actually worth. Why would you do that? Well, it's because of enthusiasm. That's why they call it a bull market. It's not based on science so much as it is on what people's expectations are. Right? So the. The expectation is that the price is going to keep going up and up and up and up. Right? But in about 1927, people realize, wait a minute, we're paying way too much for this stock, and then it'll level off. And then in 1929, there is what's called a market correction, where the. The value moves to equal the price. Okay? And so what happens then is that now the price and the value of the stock are the same, but the stock was overvalued so that the money that People that was represented for people in the stock is going to disappear. Okay, so, so, professor, sorry to interrupt, but the top line is the price and the bottom line is the value of the stock. Right? Price and value. Okay, that makes sense. Okay. And, and so the idea here is that they're paying more for the stock than it's actually worth. I don't know if you guys remember in 2008 with the housing crisis. The problem with the housing crisis was that people were paying more for the houses than they were worth, right? And, and when it became obvious that that was happening, then the value of the, of the, the, or excuse me, the price of the value of the houses dropped to equal the value, which meant that a lot of people's money that would, had been invested just disappeared. Right? You guys, you guys got that? Okay, now, now think about when we watch that movie about the, the twenties and we heard they were talking about investing on margin. You guys remember that? Investing on margin. What is investing on margin? Well, essentially what it meant was if you wanted to buy a certain amount of stock, you would only have to pay for 10% of that stock, right? So let's say you wanted to borrow, you wanted to buy a thousand dollars worth of stock, you would only have to put up $100, right? Well, why would that work? Well, the reason why that would work. Well, first off, let me just ask you this. On the day that you purchase that stock, you would get a stock certificate saying that you had $1,000. Okay? But you had only put up $100. So how much real value do you have? Dollars worth of stock? No, because if somebody calls that stock, oh, a thousand dollars worth of stock, but the price is only 100, right? So how much money do you actually have? A thousand dollars? No, that's what it looks like you have. But what you really have is, is a tenth, like a tenth of whatever the value is. No, it's minus $900. You are in debt, right? Oh, because you're really buying a loan, basically, like a short term loan. Oh, that makes sense. Yeah, yeah. And so what happens then? The reason why that works is if the price keeps going up, eventually the price will match the value of the amount of money that you actually paid or that the face value of the stock, let's put it that way. And then after that, anything you make is profit. You guys follow what I'm saying? But the day that you buy it, you're not actually buying stock, you're actually creating debt. You really owe money, right? You follow what I'M saying here, okay? So let's just leave it at that. And let's keep this in mind. Well, let me just say this, right? That all of this money, between the price and the value, much of what is not real, it's really representing. It's representing debt, right? All of this money, when the stock market crashes, so to speak, the. The market correction causes the price and the value to equal each other. All that money disappears. Okay? All that money disappears. All right? Does that make sense to you guys? Question. You understand that? Okay, let me. Let me just show you here. Then how do I get out of this thing? Okay, now I'm going to go back to the. All right, now do you see the. What do you see? Do you see the. The great debt balloon in front of you? We see you. Oh, you see me. Oh, well, I don't want. Okay. All right, now you see it, right? Yes, sir. Yes. Okay. All right. Okay, so now we're just talking about was the bull market, right? Remember we said that all the money in the United States was in United. All the money in the world was in the United States at the money that was in the United States. Much of it was there because of the bull market, right? And the bull market meant that prices kept going up and up and up and up, right? What happens if the prices. What happens if the, if the market changes from a bull market to a bear market? Bear market is when the prices are going down, right? Meaning that people are losing money. And what that really meant was all of that imaginary money that was there is no longer there. Right? So what that means then is that the system here relies on there being money in United States that can be loaned to Germany, that can be paid to Britain and France, it can be paid back to the US but if there isn't any money in the US Then this whole system collapses. Right? You follow what I'm saying here? And that's why I call it the great debt balloon. Because the bull market is the fire that's keeping the balloon inflated and floating. But that's an. It's. It's hot air. It's not real. And when the bull market, when the fire goes out, the whole thing collapses. The. The balloon crashes. You guys got me here. That makes sense. Okay, now let's go back then and we talk about, okay, this money that was being invested, that was being loaned, right, was mostly by banks, okay? Where does the bank get its money? Investors. American investors. Depositors. Right? So. So let's say that I have a hundred dollars and I Put it in the bank. And then the bank pays me interest so that they can use my money and they take my money, my hundred dollars, and they buy a thousand dollars worth of stock and they loan that because it looks like now they've got a thousand dollars. So they loan that to Germany. Right? And so what we see then is that most of this money isn't real. What happens when the balloon crashes? What happens? Does the bank have enough money to pay off all of its debts? No, no, it lost all that money. Right? So it's. It actually has said that it had more money than it actually did. And Americans aren't stupid. They realize, okay, look, the banks have been reckless with my money. I better go down and get it. And so they had what they call runs on the bank, right? People would run down to the bank and he'd stand in line and take out all their money. Okay, but what happens if you're the guy that's in line behind the last guy that gets money? Don't get any money. You don't get any money. The technical term for that is you're screwed, right? Because if you don't get any money, you're just out of luck. There isn't any place to turn. It's all gone. You guys get what I'm saying? Okay? And this is going to be then that. What this is going to do is it's going to cause a lot of people to lose any kind of savings that they may have had, which was the only safety net there was in the United States at the time. If you were out of money, you couldn't go on welfare, right? You, you were just out of luck. Okay, you get, you get what I'm saying here? And this is going to be what causes a lot of people to decide to move. They're going to say, I can't make any money here. I got to go somewhere else. Let's go to California. Right? You get what I'm saying? Right. Okay. So, so now let's say then that the bank doesn't have any money. The banking system essentially collapses. Right? Well, how is that going to end up causing a Great Depression? Well, the reason why is because manufacturing relies on the banking system. If you're going to, if you're a manufacturer, it's kind of like farming, really. If you're a manufacturer, then you go to the bank and you borrow money, and then you use that money to hire workers and to buy machinery and resources. You build a product and then you sell the product, and then you take the Money that you got from selling the product, you pay back the bank and then anything left over is your profit. Okay, but where does the whole cycle start? Does it start with the citizens because they have to give the like paper? Right, but I just. I. What? I. Yeah, it does. It starts with the depositors. Right, but in this scenario, the, the one I just described, the whole system started, the whole process started at the bank. Right. The manufacturers go to the bank for what? What do they go to the bank to get? Capital. Right. And if the banking system collapses, that means there is no capital. Right. If there's no capitalism, you can't. Excuse me, if there's no capital, you can't have capitalism. You can't have capitalism without capital. You guys get what I'm saying here? That if there's no money in the economy, you can't anything, you can't manufacture anything. And because of that, then there's going to be high unemployment. Right, you guys are following me here. And let's go even further than that because we've already said that all of the, the industrial countries of the world had collapsed. Right? And when those economies collapsed. Do you guys remember us talking about dependency theory in when we talked about imperialism? What is dependency theory? Is it like some countries are dependent on others for resources and capital? Right, exactly. There's two groups of countries, the metropolis and the periphery. Right. The metropolis is a monarch country and the periphery is colonized economies. Right. And when the of the metropolis collapses, what happens to the economy of the periphery? They also collapsed because they were dependent on the metropolis. Exactly. That's why they call it dependency. Okay? And so we see then the entire world capitalist economy collapses. All right? And really this was a death blow to capitalism. Right. Capitalism essentially is dead everywhere. Okay, but now let's think about this. There's one country, one major country in the world where the economy didn't collapse. Does anybody want to guess where that is? Well, what country do you think is not a capital? United States. No. Well, United States, Russia. The Soviet Union. Exactly. Because remember, the Soviets have had a communist revolution. So they're not in a capitalist, they're not in the capitalist system anymore. Right, okay, so. So what will happen then is that capitalism essentially is dead and the Soviet Union's economy didn't collapse. The Soviet Union will use that as a propaganda tool to say, look, socialism really works because our economy didn't collapse even though all the capitalist economies collapsed. You guys follow what I'm saying here? But there's a big problem with that. And the Big problem is that the, the economy in the Soviet Union didn't collapse because it had already collapsed during the revolution and it never recovered. Right? And so, so when they said our economy didn't collapse, it didn't collapse because it couldn't collapse. There was no place for it to collapse too. It was already dead. Okay, all right, so, so, but what will happen then is many people in the rest of the world will start to say, yeah, you know, socialism might not be such a bad idea. People like, for example, Upton Sinclair, right? And other people like WB Du Bois, who we talked about. All right, we'll start to say, look, maybe, maybe socialism is not such a bad idea after all. Right? You guys get what I'm saying? Questions, comments, and, and so what will happen then is that we're gonna go, we're gonna do a little word game with this sentence. People search for solutions. All right, so, so we're going to do is we're going to figure out where can we put the word desperate in there, okay? We say, okay, well, desperate people search for solutions. Yep, that's true. People desperately search for solutions. Yeah, that's true. All right. People search for desperate solutions. And that's also true, right? When the economy's dead, when you don't have any prospect of being able to live and support your family, then you, your investment in things like freedom, liberty, idealism kind of goes out the window. You follow what I'm saying? And so what we see then is that all of the countries of the world that were formerly capitalist countries will look for some form of desperate solution. Right? And, and here's some examples. For example, corporatism. Cor. Oh, sorry about that. Corporatism is basically a one party state, okay? The idea is that all of the politics of the, of the country happen within the party. And because of that, the party then can run the economy and the military and everything else. Right. And, and the idea then would be that there wouldn't be any political upheaval and, and they could save the economy. All right? And that's, you know, obviously very generalized view. Right? But where we see this is in, in Italy with fascism, in Germany with Nazism, in Spain with Falangeism. Right. Also in Latin America, Peronismo, Juan Peron in Argentina and Brazil. Right. The idea here is that there's a single party state and that because it's a single party state, they'll be able to manage the economy to recovery. All right? The problem, well, there's many problems, but the main problem here with corporatism is that in every case except one, corporatism becomes represented by an individual. It becomes an occult personality, right? So for example, in Italy we associate fascism with Mussolini, right? In in Germany we associate Nazism with Hitler, right? In in Spain we associate phalangeism with Francisco Franco. And in Argentina Juan Peron and in brazilio Vargas. And. And then the. Brought the. The consequence of that is that when these people leave the scene, their corporate governments collapse because the party isn't really the party, it's really that person. You guys get what I'm saying? But they're only. The only significant exception to that would be in Mexico with the Pre, right? The Pre was actually the revolutionary party in Mexico after 1920, right? And it actually lasted all the way until 2000. And why did it last so long? The reason why was because the Pre was not associated with a single individual, right? That it was associated with whoever was the president. But the president could Only serve for 6 years with no re election, right? So there was a phrase in Mexican politics, God dies every six years, okay? And that's the reason why Pre was lasted for so long. But if you actually look at the history of the Pre, you'll see that at some points it was socialist, at some points it was conservative and reactionary, right? It depends on who was in government power at the time. But the main thing to take away from it was that the politics was handled within the party and not in open politics, right? Which meant really that the people have no say in it, all right? Or very little, okay? Only the party has a say, okay? So conversely in the United States, right, If you're. If your labor, if your interest is in labor, the Democratic Party represents you. If your interest is in the corporate world, the Republican Party represents you. And then you work out the differences between those at the ballot box. But the people have input. You see what I'm saying? That's not the way it is in a corporate state, okay? In a corporate state you don't have any input. So it's really not democracy. And in fact many people call it capitalism without democracy, right? Questions? Comments? Okay. Then we see in Japan, they. The military takes over with the idea that, that, you know, if we start a war, that's going to help the economy. So they invade China, right? And they set out on a course of conquest in, in Asia that will eventually lead to World War II, which we'll talk about on Wednesday, right? In in other countries in Europe and like France and Britain and Scandinavia, there's going to be a movement towards Socialism. Socialism, meaning that the government actually takes control of certain sections of the economy, like health care, railroads, some businesses and things like that, with the idea that the government actually, the, the government can actually save these corporations for the benefit of the people. Right. And then we already talked about in Soviet Union was already communist. So of all of the countries in the world that felt the Great Depression, only one of them didn't go for some more desperate solution, and that was in the United States. In the United States, rather than going for socialism or militarism or fascism, the United States went for what's called the New Deal. And that's what we're going to talk about next. Right? Questions? Comments? Well, let me just, let me just mention, or let me ask you really the idea, the reason why people would give up their democracy in order to support fascism was. Was what, what was the reason for that? Why would people be willing to give up democracy and support fascism? Because fascism promised what, mixed economy. Right? Fascism promised to fix the economy. Same with Nazism and all these other solutions. Did fascism fix the Great Depression? No. No. And why not? Could fascism in Italy solve a world depression? No. No. Why not? Because it only applies to Italy. Exactly. The problem was a worldwide problem, but at this point, there's no mechanism for all the countries of the world to come together and, and find a solution. Do you see what I'm saying? All right, so, so really none of these different solutions to, to the Great Depression work. Okay, Questions, Comments about any of that? Because it didn't end the Depression. Okay? So now let's, let's look at the New Deal. A lot of different acronyms, which we're not going to actually have to talk about all of them. You don't have to remember them. Right. But let's go back and start with historically, chronologically. The man who was president when the stock market crashed was Herbert Hoover. Herbert Hoover was a Republican. And because he was a Republican, he believed in capitalism and he believed that, that the Depression was just another downturn, that capitalism went through boom and bust cycles. And then when it was in a boom cycle, everybody's making money. When it's in bust cycles, you just kind of entrench, you know, and, and wait. And it'll come back eventually. That's the idea. Right. And that historically, that's the way it looked. Right? It looked like that's what had happened. Did you have a question, Cooper? Yeah. Didn't everyone hate Hoover? Hoover? Well, not everyone, but Hoover did take the blame for Great Depression because they, they said he didn't do anything. Right. Which is not true. He did do some things, but he didn't think that there was a. That was necessary to. To do anything extraordinary because he thought that it was just a natural capitalist cycle. Does that make sense? And, and so the result was that one of the things that. That Roosevelt was able to do was to say, look, this guy hasn't done anything. Okay? What the difference between Hoover and Roosevelt was that Roosevelt had been governor of New York and he had been trying different things to alleviate the economic problems in New York. And he promised the American people that if he was elected president that he would do that on a national scale, that he was going to offer the American people a new deal. And this new deal would be essentially that the government has a role to play in the welfare of the people. Okay? Now, this was different from what people had thought before. What people thought before was that the government was there to do only the things that the people couldn't do. Right. And the idea that the government was there to actually help people was. I'm. I'm sorry, I'm looking at. I'm looking at Jaime going to the beach. It's kind of distracting. But anyway, the. The idea was that the government wasn't supposed to help people. It was just supposed to do those things that it was supposed to keep its hands off. Right? Laissez faire. That was the idea. Right. But here's Roosevelt. Roosevelt comes along and says, no, the government has a role to play that the government should play a major role in and restoring the. The welfare of the people. Right. And. And people bought that. Why? Because they didn't have anything. And because Hoover wasn't trying to do anything. He did some things, but he really wasn't that interested in trying to fix the problem because he thought the problem would fix itself. And Roosevelt said, no, it's not going to fix itself. And. And the reality was that it wouldn't, because capitalism, as I said, was dead. Right. Okay, so Roosevelt's elected with a promise of a new deal, which meant government intervention in the economy. Right. But now let's take a look at the very first that Roosevelt does on his first day in office is to sign what's called the Emergency Banking Act. All right? And what the Emergency Banking act did was it declared a bank holiday, meaning that all the banks in the country were forced to close and that no banks could reopen until they had met certain safety standards that would protect the money that was invested by the depositors. Okay, you guys are with me. And really what it did was it separated the banking system from the stock system from the investment system. Right. So they created a couple of different agencies. One, the fdic, which insures bank deposits, meaning that if you're the guy behind the guy that got the last of the money, you'd still be able to get your money, but in this case, it would come from the government. Right? You guys get what I'm saying? And then the other part was the securities Exchange Commission, which regulates trading. Right. And it keeps banking out of the trading industry. Okay, you guys are always me. Question, Comments? Okay, so this is to, To. To ensure that what had happened that caused the Great Depression wouldn't happen again. Okay, but now let's think about this for a minute. Why would Roosevelt be interested in, in, in making people have confidence in the bank? Why would he want people to have confidence in the bank? So they'll put money in the bank and bring the economy back. Okay, so if they put money in the bank, what's that going to do to the economy? How is that going to help the economy restimulate? Yeah, go ahead. Sorry. Go ahead, Cooper. Oh, people could start creating capital again. Right. And so because you could have capital, then you could have what, jobs and labor, Capitalism. Right. Because remember I said you can't have capitalism without capital. And that's what had happened. The, the industry had collapsed because there wasn't any capital. Right. And so now if we restore the capital, then we can restore the capitalist system. Right. So having said all that, then what do you think is the major focus of the New Deal? What was the real major focus of the New Deal? To restore capitalism. To restore capitalism. Exactly. Now, why do I say that? Well, because, I mean, as I've already mentioned to you, I think I may have mentioned to you that the last speaker of the House, Republican speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, had said that it was his job, it was his aspiration to destroy the New Deal. Why? Because it's socialist. Right. And Americans don't like socialism. But now we have to go back and think about what was the purpose of the New Deal? Was it to establish a new economic system? Was it to establish socialism? Or was it to save capitalism? Go ahead, Cooper. I kind of see it as like, almost like a safety net for capitalism. Like, when all else fails, these things will sort of like, maintain trust in the capitalist system in a way. Exactly. So what we see in this, Remember I told you on the last slide that the only country that was still capitalist at the end of the 1930s was the United States, all of the other countries had done something else more drastic like phalangeism or Nazism or militarism or socialism. Right? But not the United States. The United States was still a capitalist economy, right? So the argument that we need to get rid of the New Deal because its purpose is to destroy capitalism is just wrong. If you like capitalism, you have to like the New Deal. You know what I'm saying? I mean, I'm not saying you should like capitalism or not like it one or the other, but I'm saying that if you like it, you have to like the New Deal. Okay, well, let's look at some other things that happened, okay? The first one is, this is important too, and that is the National Industrial Recovery Act. Basically what it does is it supports labor, right? Labor. It means unions, okay? And one of the things I have mentioned to you guys already before is that Americans have really not been very much in favor of unions. Government has never been in favor of unions. Right? And the reason why is because unionism is seen as communism or socialism. The idea that people coming together, collective bargaining, that's socialism. It's like the proletariat taking over the bourgeoisie. And so Americans have never really supported labor except during World War I for a very short period of time, and then during the Great Depression and also World War II. Okay? So the only time really that Americans have supported labor has been during these periods of time. But one thing that we can notice, the consequence of unionizing is that the unions actually created the middle class, right? It raised the workers out of the lower classes and into the middle class. So when we looked at this country as a middle class country in the 1960s and the 1970s, right? It was that because of unions. Okay? Now obviously there's people who would argue with me on that one, but I think I have the numbers to back me up. But at any rate, the point here is that what we see happening with the decline in support for labor is the decline of the middle class, right? So in the last 20 years, the Middle class has essentially disappeared. There's this huge income gap between a few people that own most of the money and. And then huge amounts of people that own almost nothing, right? And the middle class, if it exists at all, is diminishing. You guys follow what I'm saying here. And I think that you can't help but associate that with the decline in union representation. Okay? Anyway, questions, comments about that. All right, so next, there was a bunch of different programs that were put together to stimulate spending, like Civilian Work Works Administration, a Swimming Conservation corps. That's this one here. Public Works Administration, Rural Electrification Agency, all these different things. The idea was to spend money to get money back into the economy, right? So it's very much like what we see happening today. I don't know if you looked at your bank account yet today, but today or tomorrow or the next day, you probably will find a pretty substantial check in there, right? And the reason why it's there is because they're trying to put money into the economy, right? And the metaphor that they use for that is priming the pump. Okay? Now, you might not know this. You might not know how pumps actually work, but. But in the old days, back in my day, if you wanted water, you had to go outside to where the well was, and there was a pump coming up out of the well with a big handle. And you'd pump the handle and then the water would come out, right? But it didn't work right at first because it was dried out. So you would have to put water into the pump to seal it so that it would actually pull the water out of the well. You guys follow me here, all right, so. So the idea of priming the pump is you put a little bit of water into the top, and it brings all the water out of the bottom out of the well, okay? And same thing here, you put a little bit of money into the economy, and it'll start the economy flowing again so that there's more money coming out. You guys follow. I'm saying here, that's what they mean by priming the pump, okay? In. In this case, it would be you put money into the hands of people. People have money now. They want to buy something, but they can't buy anything if nothing's being made. So people start making things, right? And because they start making things, they have to hire people to make them, right? And. And gets the economy rolling again. You guys follow what I'm saying here? That makes sense. Now, let me just mention to you, sadly, that historically speaking, stimulus has never worked, that no country has ever been able to buy its way out of a depression. Okay? Not saying it won't work now, but. But up to now, it hasn't really worked, okay? Just leave it at that. Right? Then this. This idea of direct relief, the Federal Emergency Relief act, basically what that was, Congress passed a law and said, Here's 500 bucks. Come and get it. Right? Well, what's interesting about that, two things. One is that the federal government had never made direct payments to individuals, right? The Federal government, if it made any payments at all, made payments to its own agencies or to states, right? But not to the people, because the federal government was supposed to, was not supposed to really have that relationship with the people, right? You guys follow what I'm saying? All right? So, so here we have the Congress saying, here's money, come and get it, right? Which a lot of people are screaming about. The federal government shouldn't be doing that. It's, it's outside of its, its mandate, essentially, right? The other part of it was that people didn't want it, right? People wouldn't take it. And the reason why was because they didn't want to take money that they didn't work for. And so what they had to do was they had to create basically make work programs. So you had to go downtown and empty the trash or something like that, and then you get your 500 bucks, right? But the idea here is that this is the beginning of what we would call the welfare state, right? The welfare state, meaning that the federal government is now supporting individuals. Federal government is no longer just an umbrella organization for the states. Okay? You guys get what I'm saying? Questions? Comments? All right. Okay, last thing. Social Security. Social Security. Idea behind Social Security was that people, if they got older, they got sick and they couldn't work anymore. There was nothing for them to rely on, okay? If they couldn't, if they didn't have family or something like that, then they were just out of luck, okay? And there wasn't any, what they call a safety net, okay? And so the idea then was to create a safety net. And the way that they did that was by taxing people who are working, right? So up until this time in American history, when you went through each year, each census year, which you Remember happens every 10 years, right? Every census year had seen an increase in population, okay? So the expectation was that the, the population would continue to increase and that the people who were in the workforce would always outnumber the people who were retired so that, that the people in the workforce would be able to pay into a fund that they could take out of that fund and pay to the people that were retired. You guys get what I'm saying? And that would always work because the population was always going to grow. The problem was after World War II, there was a huge increase in population that was very short lived where they created the baby boomer generation, okay? Boomer. And then the population started to decline and it's continued to decline since then. So the reality is now, I mean, I Just retired this last year and I'm basically in the middle of the baby boom generation. Right, okay, Boomer. And, and, and what we see happening then is that there's more and more people retiring, less and less people paying into Social Security. You see what I'm saying? So, so the reality is that Social Security can't continue to pay out what it's paying out now without either raising taxes or lowering the benefit. You follow what I'm saying? Well, neither one of those things is an attractive possibility for old people. And the last thing you want to do is, is get old people angry because old people vote. Right. And so basically then Social Security has a built in problem that nobody wants to touch because it's political. It's a, it's a political loser. Okay. One other problem with Social Security is that even though it's essentially taking money from the people who are working now and giving to the people that are retired, that's not the way they sold it. The way they sold it was that you were paying money into an account that was your account that you would be able to draw on at the end of, at the end of your career, essentially. Right. So, so every year I used to get a letter saying this is how much money you've paid into your account and this is how much money you can get if you retire at whatever age. Right. The reality is that that money that's supposed to be in my account isn't there. Right. Okay. There is no account. All right? And, and that the money that's being paid to me today through my Social Security is coming from you guys who are working and paying Social Security. You guys get what I'm saying? Okay, so the problem here then is to say you can't go to people and say, okay, well, remember we told you you had this account full of money. Well, guess what? We were just kidding. You don't really have an account full of money. You have nothing. Right? Do you see what I'm saying? So it's, it's a huge problem based on really a bad sell. And, and the result is that it's, it's something that is going to be very difficult to solve. All right, questions? Comments? I don't have a solution. All I know is that half of my income comes from Social Security. So you guys got to keep working. Working. Right, questions? I, I, you guys apparently didn't think that was funny. I thought it was funny. Right. All right, question. Also, also, like, I think another part of the issue is that people are just living longer in general because of healthcare and stuff. It's always improving technology. So, like, it's also an ongoing, I guess not alien issue, but an issue. No, it is an issue because the expectation. How dare you live longer? Yeah, exactly. The expectation in, in 1933 or 4, whenever they put this in before, I think when they put it into effect was that people. I mean, 65 was old. Nobody lived past 65. Right. And now we got people living to 80, 90. I have. I have friends who are in their 70s, 80s. Right. And so people are living longer and collecting more money and there's people. Less people paying into it. So that's. You're right, that is a problem. Questions? Comments? So I would just have to leave it at that. We could make all kinds of bad jokes about that, but we'll leave it alone. All right, so let's talk about the legacy of the New Deal. The first thing is that the New Deal didn't solve the Great Depression. Why? I read something in the book. It was like the New Deal didn't solve it, but World War I did solve the Great Depression. World War II or World War II. I apologize. Yeah, that's actually wrong. World War II, although it makes it look like it did, but it really didn't. Okay. And the reason why is because after World War II, the American economy went right back into depression. Depression, right. Because they were no longer making those war materials. And what really saved, what really brought back capitalism was the Breton Accords that happened. It was. It was an agreement among all the capitalist countries to restructure the economic system of the world. And that's what really brought capitalism back. Right. So it really wasn't the war. And again, that's why we don't want to say that war is good for the economy, because it's not. Okay. Does that answer your question? Okay, yeah. Yeah, it does. Okay. So now let's ask this question, though. If it didn't solve the Great Depression, why didn't it? Well, I don't think it was really meant to solve. It is more just meant to, like, main maintain capitalism. Like I said, the safety net, provide stability to it. Okay, good. And again, we asked the question earlier. Did fascism solve the. The Great Depression? And why didn't it? Because it's a worldwide going issue. Exactly. It's a world problem. And. And so there really wasn't any instrument to solve that problem until after World War II. You follow what I'm saying? It was after World War II that the countries could come together and restructure the economy. All right. You guys got that? Okay, so, so now if we went from 1933 in the depths of the Great Depression and we go to 1939 or 1941 when World War II starts, right, and we see that there really hasn't been any increase in the economy, right. Why did the Americans not decide to go for something like Upton Sinclair socialism or for some kind of fascism or corporatism? What kept America from the more desperate solutions that other country it's adopted? Wasn't it like the propaganda or. I mean, I'm not saying this is the only reason, but this aided the reason for Americans not to accept the EPIC or something like the EPIC program. And it was because the power that the industries, like the movie industry, like Hollywood, the propaganda they put out diluted the perspectives, you could say of the American citizens. Okay. And yeah, that's a good argument. The only problem with that argument is that it really puts, well, maybe it's not, it's not a, a good rejoinder to the argument, but it really. People have their mind, their own minds and they should be able to vote. Although propaganda was part of it, but I really not so sure that it was the propaganda of the movie companies as much as it was the propaganda of who? News outlets? Well, not necessarily news outlets, but what, what was the difference between, between Hoover's government and Roosevelt's government in terms of its relation with the people? Hubers was very non interactive, but Roosevelt was very hands on. Very hands on. And how did he communicate with the people? Fireside chats. Exactly. So what we have then is we go from this far away government that doesn't really relate to me, to this old guy that's sitting in his living room next to the fire, encouraging me, challenging me. Right? And, and what does it do? And he's doing all these different things, right, and what does that do? It, it creates hope, right. People say, well yeah, things aren't going so good now, but maybe we know that there's, there's a way out and we're working on this way out. Okay. And we're doing it together, that sort of thing. Right? So, so really the reason why Americans didn't choose EPIC or some other thing like that was because they really believed that Roosevelt was going to be able to pull it off to, to, to bring about a recovery. You guys get what I'm saying? And it was so, it was hope, it was really hope that kept capitalism alive in the United States. Because as I mentioned to you guys before, the United States was the only capitalist country left in the world at the beginning of the world, World War II. Right. Questions? Comments? Okay, now let me just also mention that even though it didn't solve the economic crisis, it did alleviate a lot of suffering. Right? It provided money to people that didn't have any money. It provided jobs to people that didn't have any jobs. So there was a lot of goodwill that was created by the. Among the people that it did help. Okay. It just didn't solve the problem. All right. Questions? Comments? I have a question. Yeah, go ahead. Was England really not capitalist at the end of the war? Because you said it was like Germany and like Spain. Well, they had. They had adopted, you know, socialism in terms of taking over major industries like the railroads. And, you know, that's something that the United States never did. Did do. Right? Okay. Yeah. Although there's, you know, some movement towards doing with health care. We'll leave that for now. Anyway. So let's look at some other things. And this is the big. The big criticism is income redistribution, right? That you're taking money from. I'm going out and working hard for my money and paying taxes, and you're taking those taxes and giving them to other people who aren't working, working. Right. And why should that be? That's not fair. Okay? That's socialism. You guys get what I'm saying? Okay, but here's the problem with that argument. I mean, it is true, right, that you take money from people who have money and give it to people who don't have money. But that's always true, pretty much in any government, right? Otherwise you wouldn't be able to have fire departments and you wouldn't be able to have highways and. And things like that. Public libraries. Right? Because I couldn't afford to buy a library. Could you afford to buy a library? Right. But, but altogether we can. We can make a library. So some people pay more into that library than other people, but we all get to use it equally, right? You get what I'm saying? There's always income redistribution. That doesn't mean it's socialism. Right. Or I should say it this way, that socialism isn't a. It's not an absolute. It's not either. Either the government is doing everything or the government's doing nothing. It's always somewhere in between. Right? So the argument in American politics is not over whether or not there should be income redistribution. The argument is always about how much. Right. How much income redistribution should there be. Right. And so when we couch, when we. When we frame our arguments in terms of either socialism or capitalism. We're really missing the point because the United States isn't really either. Right. It's somewhere in between. And the arguments between Democrats and Republicans up until more recently have always been how, how much further to the left or right of the center are you going to get? But it's never very far. It's always. I mean, the range of American politics is tiny compared to world politics. Right. World politics goes all the way from total control of the economy to no control at all. Okay. And in the United States, it's always somewhere right in the middle. You get what I'm saying? Questions, Comments? And that's why it's important to have liberals and conservatives. Right. So that you don't go off the rails one way or the other. Does that make sense? Questions, Comments? Okay. Gave voice to previously excluded groups like labor and farmers. I already mentioned to you, labor, farmers were helped to a certain extent, but keep in mind that farming was industrializing and it really never recovered. Okay. In terms of, you know, this country being an agrarian country, but labor was, was, was supported and it, it was helpful to the overall economy to, to bring the lower classes into the middle classes. Right. And I say that really since the end of the 1950s, we've seen a real decrease in support for labor, which has, which has contributed to the decline in the middle class. All right. Questions, Comments about that. And then finally, increased power of the federal government. We see the federal government doing things that people before would never have imagined. Okay. There was only one other time when people had done things that started to happen during the Great Depression. That was during World War I. World War I. Remember when we talked about total war and how the federal government had to organize the economy to fight the war? Right. But other than that, the federal. After the war was over, everything kind of went back to the way it was until the New Deal. The New Deal then makes the federal government more present in people's lives. All right. Questions, Comments about this. Okay. But now let me give you a kind of a perspective on that. And let's. I'm going to give you a couple of numbers here. And the first number is that at the, at the beginning of World War II, there were 20,000 federal employees in Washington, D.C. right. At the end of World War II, there were 2 million federal employees in Washington, D. C. So now, which of these two events, the New Deal or World War II, do you think actually created the, the, the kind of imperial government that we have today? The New Deal, really, at the beginning of World War II, there were. Can you repeat the numbers again, please. Right. At the beginning of World War II, there were 20,000 federal workers in Washington, D.C. at the end of World War II, there were 2 million federal workers in Washington, D. C. Oh, so it would be World War II because the increase of federal. Right, exactly. And so, yeah, the New Deal did create a situation where the federal government had more power than it had ever had before. But the enormous federal government that we have today really was a result of World War II. Right. Because once that. Once the government has grown to take over certain functions, it never backs off. It's kind of like if you give up some of your freedom for security, when do you get it back? Never. You follow what I'm saying? All right, so we'll just leave it at that. Any questions or comments about any of this? What did you say? Is that so? What did you say? Solve the Great Depression? Because you said it wasn't the New Deal nor. NOR World War II. No, it was an arrangement among all of the manufacturing countries after World War II. Okay, so, okay, the arrangement of manufacturing countries after World War II. Right. And this was actually even outside the U.N. right. We'll talk a little bit more about the U.N. in a couple weeks. Okay. Any. Any other questions? Comments? Does that answer your question? I mean, really think about it. Because everybody always says, oh, yeah, it was World War II that ended the department depression. Yeah. But no, it makes sense. It's like everyone got together and try to organize an economy that was stabilized more than just themselves. Okay. Yeah. I would say this, that the reason why we could say the. Or the context in which we could say that World War II ended the Great Depression was in the context that you read about in the good War that you're reading for next week. Right. And that is that people who weren't working before were now working. Right. The problem was that it was only a temporary fix because as soon as the war was over, then there was no need to make airplanes anymore, so they stopped making them. Right. And people were out of work again. You see what I'm saying here? Okay. And so it was even though the. The American economy was booming during World War II. At the end of World War II, World War II, it went right back into depression. Okay, question. Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah. All right. Any other questions? Yeah. Could you explain how Exactly World War II expanded the federal government jobs? Again, like, what exactly they did? They must have missed that. Well, they created. They created agencies that. That oversaw pretty much every aspect of American life. Life. Because World War II was total war so the. In order to organize the country for a total war, and it was much bigger than World War I. Remember, World War I was American troops on the Western front. Okay? World War II is American troops everywhere in the world. Right? And in order to be able to organize that, you need to have a huge bureaucracy. And that. So the war actually created that huge bureau bureaucracy that they basically rationed goods and made arrangements between workers and. And industry and all sorts of things that. That. That wouldn't have been before. Does that make sense? That answer your question? Okay. Yeah, it does. Thank you. Any other question? Any other questions? Well, I'm gonna make you guys go away then. I think I kept you late again, didn't I? Class is supposed to end at 12:25. No, that 35. I think you. I think you're on time. Okay, well, I don't want to keep you guys late. I want to live long and prosper. Thanks, Professor. See you next time. Thank you.