It no one likes us I don't know why. We may not be perfect but heaven knows we try but all around even our old friends put us down. Let's drop the big one and see what happens. We give them money but aren't they grateful? No, they're spiteful and they're hateful. They don't respect us so let's surprise them. We'll drop the big one. Pulverize Asia's crowded. Europe's too old. Africa's far too hot. Canada's too cold. South America stole our name. Let's drop the big one. There'll be no one left to blame us. We'll save Australia, don't want to hurt no kangaroo. We'll build an all American amusement park there they got surfing, too. Boom goes London. Boom. Perry. More room for you and more room for me. In every city the whole world round will just be another American town. Oh, how peaceful it will be. We set everybody free. You wear Japanese kimono, babe The Italian shoes for me. They all hate us anyhow so let's drop the big one now. Let's drop the big one now. Do you guys like my song? I thought it was pretty good. I did do. Do you know why I played that song today? Are we talking about political science? Not really. Sorry. We're going to be talking about the end of the Cold war today. Or not the end of it, actually, but the second part of it, the end of it doesn't happen until after this class is over. But any questions or comments about anything? Randy Newman was talking about American attitude. Basically, we have the bomb. We can do whatever we want. Right? So any questions, comments about anything before we get started? Just so you know, I will be posting the peer reviews tomorrow for the exam, and I'd like for you guys to finish those up quickly so I can grade the exams. All right? So just keep your eyes open for that. Anything else? Everybody's moving right along. All right, so let me go ahead and share the screen here. We're going to be picking up where we left off kind of. When we talked about the Cold war on Monday, the kind of theme that we brought up and the context of it was that while the Cold war was happening, there was another world historical event happening. So. So the Cold War lasted from about 1945 to about 1993, I think. But at the same time, between 1945 and 1965, there was another movement happening. Does anybody remember what that was called During. During which period between 1945 and 1965, civil rights movement no, that's true. Although I'm talking about a world event really more than just a US it had to do with the. The Cold War was part of it, but it had to do with the fact that the former imperial powers had lost their ability to hold on to their empires. The Iron Curtain falls. No, that's not it. Communism. You guys are with the Red Scare. No, you guys are just guessing. It was decolonization. Remember me talking about decolonization? Is that a yes or a no? Yeah, I remember that. Yeah. All right, so decolonization was when there were a number of countries that suddenly became independent who had formerly been colonized and that. Remember we talked about how they had formed a new movement called the Non Aligned Movement that became known as the Third World. Right. The main thing to take away from that though is that these countries are crippled economically because of the colonial experience that they had had. And so we see then a struggle. Really the way it worked out was that the British essentially gave up their empire. They restructured the empire and gave it up so India and many of the British colonies become independent without any kind of struggle or any more bloodshed. But the, the French didn't. The French tried to hold on to their, their empire and so they ended up in anti colonial wars in Algeria and in Southeast Asia, which we'll talk about here in just a second. Right. And that demonstrates to us the difficulty of characterizing simply in a simple way the events that happened after World War II. Okay. Because we have to look at them both in terms of the Cold War between, which was an ideological conflict between the United States and the Soviet Union and anti. And decolonization, which was, which created anti colonial struggles in many places in the world. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions, comments about any of that. All right, so what we're going to do first is we're going to. Well, the, the main. I guess to continue the theme. The main. So what I'm looking for, the main theme or thesis context of what we're talking about is that the. There were in many places in the world anti colonial struggles where Communism ended up playing as being seen as a viable alternative because of the effects of colonialism. But we're going to see that. That the way the United States perceived the world after World War II caused them to act in a way that, that created tragedy. It's a tragic outcome. Right. Okay. And I'm going to show you today, I'm going to show you two examples of that. All right. One of this is going to be closer to Home. And the other one is going to be further away. The one thing that you should notice is that I'm going to talk about Cuba first. And that happened after what happened in Vietnam. Right? Chronologically, I'm going to talk about it first, but then I'm going to go back and talk about what happened in Vietnam because that's going to lead us to the next part of our story when we get there. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Okay, so let's start with Cuba then. And you remember we talked briefly about Cuba when we talked about imperialism and economic imperialism. We talked about how the United States had engaged in a conflict against Spain in Cuba and that that conflict was in some ways, well, we talked about how yellow journalism had quite a bit to do with that. But we also talked about how the economy of Cuba was controlled by American sugar interests. Okay? So the American companies owned the Cuban sugar fields and they owned the Cuban sugar plants, and they exported sugar from Cuba to the United States. But the, the, the profits from that enterprise ended up in American pockets and not in Cuban pockets. Right? And so the, the. There is a movement in, in Cuba toward what we call economic nationalism. All right, so, so the situation in Cuba was what we called economic imperialism, which was that the United States controlled, or American interests essentially controlled the, the government of, of, excuse me, controlled the economic life of Cuba, but essentially let Cuba rule itself as long as it didn't rule irresponsibly. The, the Platt Amendment basically said that the United States had a right to, to intervene in Cuba in case the Cuban government acted in a way that was irresponsible. And in this case, irresponsible means that they act in a way that hurts American business interests. You guys follow what I'm saying here. And so when we talked about economic imperialism, we said that economic imperialism is where the mother country controls the, the economy of the, of the peripheral country, but that the peripheral country was nominally independent and that imperial advantage was maintained by military intervention. Remember, we said that? Right. This is exactly what we see here, the situation in Cuba. All right? So now the American enforced constitution in Cuba went into effect in the first decade of the 20th century. And by the third decade in the 1920s, there's a movement toward economic nationalism led by a guy named Fidel Castro. You may have heard of him. Fidel at this time was not a communist. In fact, he was anti communist, but he was an economic nationalist, which meant that he believed that the assets, the American assets in Cuba which were funneling profit to Americans should be used for the support of the Cuban people and not for, for Americans. Okay. And so he is actually going to work against American interests in Cuba and eventually he will stage an uprising, kind of a, a putsch, I guess you could say. And he's put on prime trial and put in jail. And then he's ex, he's exiled and he, and he goes into exile in Mexico and, and there he meets a man named Ernesto Guevara. Ernesto Guevara, who you may probably have heard of as Che. Che Guevara. Right. Just so you know, Che in, in Argentina is like dude, right? So if you call somebody chef, it's like, it's like calling him dude. You know what I'm saying? All right, so we're talking about Dude Gavara, right? And he was a doctor, an Argentine doctor, but he was a committed socialist. All right, so now, now as I mentioned, Fidel was not a communist and he was actually anti communist and he refused to cooperate with the Communist party in Cuba. There was one, right. But his kind of right hand man, Che ends up being a socialist, a committed socialist. And so when Fidel takes over Cuba, Che becomes the finance minister and he's going to try to implement socialist reforms in Cuba. All right, now let's just take a step back. The governments in Cuba up to that point had essentially been dictatorships. And the United States supported those dictatorships as long as the dictators were in favor of American interests. But when Fidel returns to Cuba and he's fighting a guerrilla war against the last of the pro American dictators, Juan Bautista, eventually it will become clear to the United States that Bautista has lost control of the situation and he's going to. And there then they will abandon him. He'll, he'll actually go into exile and Fidel will take over. And the idea that the Americans had was, okay, well, Bautista was our guy, but now he's not our guy anymore. Fidel, you're our guy now. Right. And the idea then was that Fidel would play along with the Americans like all the other former dictators had. But instead of that, Fidel declared that he was going to nationalize the sugar industry. Right. Which meant that he was going to disinvest ownership from American corporations to, to Cuba. Cuba would actually take over the sugar industry, which is seen by Americans as communist. Right. It's not as bad as it sounds because Fidel actually, and the Cuban government actually paid for the value of the sugar industry. The problem was that the sugar industry had been under declaring the value for decades. And so, so that they wouldn't have to pay higher taxes. And the result was that when they, when the Cuban government paid them for the value of the properties because they had been so undervalued, they got almost nothing. And so they complained about that, but that's what they had signed up for, essentially. At any rate, the point here is that Americans see this as a move toward communism, Right. And so the Americans are going to take a very tough stand against Cuba. The Americans actually impose a bargo, an embargo against Cuba, meaning that Cuba cannot export any of its product, its sugar, to the United States, which is devastating because Cuba, like many of the other peripheral countries, has a monostaple economy. Do you guys remember that? Mono staple? What does that mean? Sorry, go ahead. I was gonna say the economy is just sort of like, like joined together. Like they affect one another very directly. Not really. That's, that's dependency theory. Mono staple. Yeah, sorry, yeah, like sugar or dairy or spices or whatever. The country. Right. The economy relies on one export product. Mono staple. One thing. Right. In this case, it's sugar. So the economy of Cuba relies on sugar exports. And if the cat. If they can't export sugar to their major market, which is the United States, then that it's going to hurt the Cuban economy. All right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Well, now this is 1960. And so in 1960, if your enemy is the United States, who's your friend? Soviet Union. Exactly. And so what happens is that the Soviets make an arrange to support the Cuban sugar industry, but in return for that support, they, they insist that Castro declare himself to be a communist and establish a communist regime. Right. So, so remember I, I had mentioned to you that all the way up until this point, Castro had actually been anti communist, but now he's going to announce that he's a communist. He always was a communist and he will always be a communist. Now why do you think that he had this sudden change of heart? Because they canceled the exports. US Canceled the exports. They canceled the exports. And so essentially drove Cuba into the arms of the Soviets. Right. So instead of Americans saying, okay, well, it's not fair that we should be making money off of your products and trying to make some kind of an arrangement with them. Instead they declared them an enemy and that really drove them into the arms of the Soviets, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? All right, so basically then we see this conflict between the Cold War and decolonization because Cuba wants to be independent of American imperial imperialism in its economy. And so they try to nationalize the sugar industry. But the Americans only see communism. And because they only see communism, then it gets caught up in the Cold War. All right, you guys are with me. So, so now the United States supports a plan for the invasion of Cuba to topple Fidel. It was a stupid plan and it didn't work. It was called the Bay of Pigs. The problem with it was that it revealed to the world that the United States was willing to use military force to, to topple Fidel Castro's regime. And as a result of that, the Soviets then declare that they're going to defend Cuba by installing missiles in. Nuclear missiles in Cuba. All right, now this is only one side of the story, because the other side of the story is that after World War II, the United States had installed American missiles in Turkey, which meant that Moscow was actually within range of American nuclear weapons. Right. And the, the Soviets had always been very upset about that and they had always demanded that the United States remove those missiles. And they saw this as an opportunity to gain some leverage by saying that we're not as long as you got missiles pointed at our capital. Now we have missiles pointed at your capital. You guys get what I'm saying here? All right, so that's kind of the background of it. But the United States then insists publicly that the Soviets have to remove the missiles. And President Kennedy declares an exclusion zone or a blockade around Cuba. That's this kind of purplish circle here with the idea being that if any ships, any Russian ships enter that area, they could be sunk, which would mean essentially an act of war, which would then mean that the, the war would, could escalate all the way to a nuclear war. You guys follow. I'm saying here because the idea at that time was that if there was a war between the United States and the Soviet Union, it would be a nuclear war. It wasn't going to be a conventional war. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? All right, so, so what happens then is that there's a, there's a flotilla or a convoy coming from Russia sailing toward Cuba for about a week and the United States is on alert. And basically everybody in the United States expects that there's going to be a war at any time and this war is going to be a six minute war after which everything is going to be destroyed. Right? But what ends up happening is that if you guys will recall George Kennan and the Long Telegram, what he had said was that if you went toe to toe with the Soviets all the way to the brink of war. Remember we talked about brinksmanship, right. That the Soviets would back down. And this is what happens, that Khrushchev, who was the leader of the Soviet Union, backed down and agreed to remove the missiles from Cuba and the United States agreed not to invade Cuba. Okay, but that didn't mean that they took away the embargo. So the embargo remained. The one part of the deal that was not publicized but was important was that the United States also agreed to remove its missiles from Turkey. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? So, so the main point of that whole story there is that the world came to the brink of nuclear disaster because the United States interpreted an anti colonial movement as a, a pro communist movement. You guys follow? I'm saying here. Questions? Comments about that, Professor? Yes. So doesn't in a sense Russia putting missiles in Cuba kind of level the playing field out since the United States already had missiles in Turkey? That's why it's not widely publicized. That, that was part of the deal. There's still missiles in Turkey to this day, too. I'm sorry. Apparently there's still nuclear missiles in Turkey. Is that true? No, I don't think so. Okay. They, they removed those, they removed those missiles. Right? The, the reason behind this, Morrison, I don't want, I don't want to sound like I'm not patriotic or anything, and I'm not pro Soviet. Right? But the United States always wants to be seen as the good guys, right? So they always want to portray whoever our adversary is as the bad guys. But if you look at American foreign policy, America is rarely the good guys, right? They, they do as much damage as any other imperialist country or the Soviets. Right? You guys follow? I'm saying questions? Comments. Yeah, I hear you on that. And I'm not saying, I'm not saying that because I'm, I'm trying to be, like I said, anti patriotic. But it's important for us to realize that America's image of itself doesn't match its actual history. Does that make sense? Questions? Comments? All right. Okay. So, so that's, that's the Cuban Missile crisis. Now we're going to move to, to Indochina, all right? And the first thing we'll say is that this area here that's enclosed in this kind of blue line, that includes Laos, North Vietnam, South Vietnam and Cambodia, with all one colony of the French called French Indochina. And what happened was at the beginning of World War II, France was overrun by the Germans and the Germans established a puppet government in Vichy. And that puppet government Ruled Vietnam for most of, during World War II, until the Japanese actually invaded Vietnam early in the war. But they didn't control Vietnam until about a year before the end of the war, at which point they expelled the French and they ruled north. They ruled Indochina directly. But then at the end of the war, the, the Allies expelled the Japanese, which left a vacuum, a power vacuum in Southeast Asia, okay? Because the Southeast Asia had been ruled for a century by the French and then by the Japanese. But now there was nobody, okay? Because the French weren't able to return immediately after the war. All right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? So there was a guy, you may have heard of him, his name was Ho Chi Minh. Ho Chi Minh was a Vietnamese nationalist, kind of like Fidel in a way. The difference between Fidel and Ho Chi Minh was that Ho Chi Minh actually, as a Vietnamese nationalist, he'd been working in Paris as a busboy at a restaurant. And he was in Paris at the time of the Versailles Conference. And he was, like many other people in colonized countries, was very excited about Wilson's idea of national self determination. That you guys will recall that One of the 14 points was that every country should be able to choose how it's ruled as long as it's democracy, right? And so he actually wrote a letter to Wilson asking for his support for independence for Vietnam. And the letter never got to Wilson. And he rented a suit, tried to meet him, he never met him. And after the conference was completed, the treaty was completed, he realized that the west was not interested in national self determination, that what the Versailles Conference really did was reinforce colonialism. Right? And so his response then was to go to Russia, which is now a new country, the Soviet Union, ruled by a communist regime under Lenin. And one of these, one of the arms, I guess you could say, of the government is an organization called the Comintern. C O M I N T E R N Comintern, which stands for Communist International. And the, the purpose of the Communist International was to spread communism everywhere. Okay? Remember that we talked about in Marxist theory, Communism can't really work until anywhere, until it's everywhere. Right? And so, so the, the Soviet government saw these formerly colonized countries as, as targets for communism because of the fact that their economies had been devastated by colonialism. Right? So really what ended up happening was that they redefined the proletariat in Marx's formula from the Industrial Workers of Europe to the peasants of the colonized countries. You guys are following me here. Questions? Comments about that? All right, so then Ho Chi Minh works with the Comintern to bring to agitate for revolution in Southeast Asia. Now, the, the conflict or the uncertainty about Ho Chi Minh is this. There's no doubt that Ho Chi Minh cooperated with the Comintern. There's no doubt that the common turn, the purpose of the common turn was to spread communism. The doubt comes in when we recognize that Ho Chi Minh, while he was a communist, was also a nationalist and that his main interest was in independence for Vietnam. Right? So. So there are those who will argue that Ho Chi Minh was a staunch communist, and there are others who argue that he was a communist because that's where he could get support. And we don't know the answer to that. Okay? But, but as far as, as far as Americans are going to be concerned, he's a communist. All right, you guys are with me. Questions, comments about this? Well, here's the problem, okay? Going back to the story that we had started with the Japanese leaving Southeast Asia, and they're leaving a kind of a power vacuum in Southeast Asia. Ho Chi Minh was the leader of a group, a revolutionary group called the Viet Minh. And the Viet Minh essentially was part of the, the Comintern. And so after the. The departure of the. Of the Japanese, Ho Chi Minh declares the Republic of Vietnam in Hanoi. And, and this declaration was actually based on or modeled on the American Declaration of Independence, with the idea being that, that Vietnam was becoming independent of French colonialism in the same way that the United States became independent from British colonialism. You guys follow what I'm saying here. So he's appealing to the United States because after World War II, everybody's appealing to the United States, right? And even he goes so far. I'm not going to read this, but I want to show it to you, and you can go back and look at it, right? He sent a telegram to President Truman asking for his support in his efforts for independence in Vietnam. All right, you guys see what I'm saying? And if you think about it, in one sense, you could say, well, I understand where he's coming from, because the United States has always been a kind of a revolutionary country. The United States supported revolutions in the United States and in other places around the world, right? And so they would be anti colonial. And in fact, Roosevelt was very heavily anti colonial. Roosevelt refused to consider the French re establishing colonial control in Vietnam. But Roosevelt was dead and Truman was alive. And Truman now was faced with the Cold War, meaning that he did not want to alienate France. And so he, instead of siding with The Vietnamese with Ho Chi Minh, he sides with the French colonialists, right? And the French colonialists are then try to re establish themselves in Southeast Asia. All right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? So this is going to lead then to a guerrilla war between, a guerrilla anti colonial war between Ho Chi Minh and the Viet Minh and the forces of the supposedly the emperor Empire of Vietnam. Vietnam had an emperor named Ba, but he actually wasn't in Vietnam, he was in France. And the, the man who was in, in control of the government in Vietnam in, in Vietnam, theoretically was a man named Nin Diem. You can see him on the screen there, right? No, Din Diem, one of the things that he did when he took power in Vietnam was he eliminated all of his opposition. So, so the reality was that at the end of World War II, there were a number of different groups in South Vietnam who were anti colonialists, Right? Not all of them communist, but what Ngo Dinh Diem did was, was eliminate all that opposition. You guys are following me here. All right, so now eventually what ends up happening is that there's a big battle that's fought here at Dien Dien Phu. And the result of the battle was that the Vietnamese soundly defeated the French colonial forces. And the French then agreed to end the war in, in Vietnam. Okay, now one of the things that. We'll just leave it at that for now. Okay, so they agreed to end the war in Vietnam. One of the reasons why was because the, the French people by this time had been fighting colonial wars in Vietnam and also in, in, in Africa. And they were coming to the belief that it wasn't worth it. Kind of like the belief that the British had that it was no longer worth fighting a war to, to keep the American colonies. Right. And so the French are about ready to give up anyway and they lose this battle at Dien Bien Phu. They don't have popular support for the war anymore. And so the parties come together and they, they create a treaty or called the Geneva Accords. And the treaty basically says that, excuse me, that the French will withdraw their forces. The, the Viet Minh will control everything north of the 17th parallel. And the Viet that no Dinh Diem and the so called Republic of South Vietnam would control the rest of the, of the peninsula until 1956. And then in 1956 there was going to be elections. And the outcome of the election would determine who ruled over a unified Vietnam. Would it be Ngo Dinh Diem and his support for the colonialists or would it be Ho Chi Minh. You guys follow me here. Now, the problem here from the American point of view is that the Americans are, are, have, have up to this point, really been encouraging the French to continue their fight. One of the things that had happened during this war was that the French had been able to convince the Americans that what was going on in Vietnam was an anti communist conflict rather than an anti colonial conflict. And so that had brought support from the Americans for the French. But as the French enthusiasm for the war waned, American enthusiasm for the war grew because they saw this as a, as another kind of front in the Cold War. You guys get what I'm saying? So, so here's where the problem lies. The problem lies is that North Vietnamese or the Vietnamese people essentially are fighting an anti colonial war against the French, and the Americans are fighting an anti communist war war against whoever they find to be communist. You guys get what I'm saying? All right. Okay. So, so then what's going to end up happening is that when the French agree to withdraw and they agree to hold elections in 1956, it is very obvious to the United States that Ho Chi Minh is going to win. And the reason why is because Ho Chi Minh, for the, from the point of view of the Vietnamese people, is not a communist bad guy, but a nationalist good guy. You guys get what I'm saying? So a lot of people supported Ho Chi Minh not because he was communist, but because they supported independence for Vietnam. You guys follow me here. You're going to be reading some documents in the next couple weeks about this. So just kind of keep this in mind that I talked about this. Right? But any rate, so. So now with the French gone, the situation in, in Vietnam is bad because it looks like Ho Chi Minh's going to win the election. And the Americans don't want that to happen. All right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Hey, Professor. Yes. So basically what's happening is the French is trying to colonize Vietnam. So. But then they don't have, like, as much power as they thought they would have. So they try to convince the America, or they try to convince America that Vietnam is common so that they would get America on their side. Right, exactly. And they were successful at that. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Okay. Now this is where America gets directly involved. The GM is convinced by the Americans to halt the elections in 1956. The, the excuse that Americans are going to use is that the Vietnamese people aren't ready yet. Right. And that's kind of the American view, is that people Aren't people have to be made ready for democracy. And the Americans know how to do it, but everybody else isn't quite there yet. So what we're going to do is we're going to rule them until they figure it out, essentially. Right? And so that's why they stopped the election. Say we're going to hold elections soon, but. But we got to wait until the people are ready. And what that means is that the people are going to choose somebody other than Ho Chi Minh. Right? You guys are with me. Okay, so the problem was, as you guys will recall, that Diem is very unpopular. He's a supporter of the colonial regime, even though it's gone now. And he has erased all of his opposition, so there isn't anybody to replace him. The America, it's like the Americans can't put lipstick on a pig, right? So they don't. They can't make Diem acceptable to the people of Vietnam. But there isn't any alternative because he's a. He's erased all of his opposition. You follow what I'm saying? And so they're, they're left with a very unstable situation in South Vietnam with the South Vietnamese government controlled by an unpopular man who is trying to maintain order against a very popular nationalist in the North. And also when the elections are called off, the North Vietnamese say that the, the accords have been violated and so they invade South Vietnam. So he's now fighting a war. Okay, you guys are with me. And it's not going well because the North Vietnamese are being supplied by China and by the Soviet Union. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? Okay, so what happens then is that the. A group of generals of the South Vietnamese army are going to conspire to over overthrow Diem. And they approach President Kennedy and asking for his kind of support for their plan. And Kennedy realizes that DM can't hold on very much longer, so he agrees to the plan with the. With the caveat that the DM is to be arrested and not killed. Okay? But what ends up happening is that Diem is murdered and all of his family is also murdered, Right? And at this point, then Kennedy will actually order a review of American policy in Vietnam. And some people argue that that was a prelude to Kennedy abandoning Vietnam. I believe that that would be true because Kennedy was a staunch anti communist, just like anybody else. A staunch Cold warrior. You couldn't be a politician in the United States if you weren't anti communist, right? And so nobody could admit to allowing South Vietnam to fall to the Communists. Right. And so it's doubtful that he was going to do that, but we will never know because before the review was finished, he was assassinated. All right, so. So here we have this, this era of political instability happening in South Vietnam with the advance of the North Vietnamese troops and the, the prospect, the probability that South Vietnam couldn't survive without American intervention. Right. And so what happens is that the new President of the United States, Johnson, is going to be searching for a reason to intervene. Now, I want to be a little bit more charitable towards Johnson than many people are. And the reason why is because Johnson really didn't want to fight a war in Vietnam because his interest was in what we call the Great Society, which we're going to talk about later, which has to do with Medicare and education and things like that. Right? But he also was very concerned that he not lose Vietnam because he would not be able to remain in office if he did. He would be blamed for. For allowing communism to spread, you guys, what I'm saying. And, and so what ends up happening then is that there's an incident here in the Gulf of Tonkin in 1964, and the incident is shrouded in mystery. Okay? The, the part of the mystery is that there was American destroyer there named the Maddox, and that it was. It had been attacked by North Vietnamese gunboats. They're like little motorboats, right? But the, the, the part that we almost never hear is that that destroyer was there not just to patrol, but it was actually supporting South Vietnamese military activity in North Vietnam. Right. At any rate, they were attacked and that attack was reported. And then the next night, they thought they were under attack. They. They reported radar contact with. With some, some force that was going to attack them. Okay? And that report reaches Washington and is interpreted as an attack. And the result of it was then that Johnson actually asks Congress not for declaration of war, but for money to defeat communism. And the Congress will unanimously, minus one abstention, approve what's known as the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution. And the Gulf of Tonkin resolution basically is a blank check for Johnson saying, you just go and do whatever you want and, and we'll pay for it. Okay, you guys are following me here. Questions, comments about this. Okay? So. So now just kind of a little bit of a caveat and we'll. We'll move on. Right? But as it happens, there were American aircraft in the sky during the night of this supposed attack. And the American aircraft pilots reported that there was no attack. Right. And that whatever the, the radarmen on the Maddox had seen it wasn't an attack. Right. But as far as the Americans were concerned, all you had to do is report an attack and that was enough to pull the trigger. You guys follow what I'm saying? And so essentially what ended up happening was that the United States got involved militarily in Vietnam based on misinformation or maybe disinformation. Okay. You know the difference between misinformation and disinformation? Misinformation is somebody saying something that's wrong. One is unintentional and the other one is intentionally given. Exactly. So if I'm, if I'm giving you misinformation, that means I'm telling you something that's not true, but I believe it's true. If I'm giving you disinformation, I'm telling you something that I know is not true. Right. But at any rate, we don't know if it was misinformation or disinformation. But that's what got. That's what triggered the United States entering the war. Can anybody else think of any other thing that might have been like that in American history? Well, if you took U.S. history one, and you know anything about the Mexican American war, Polk reported that Mexico had invaded the United States when Mexico had not invaded the United States. And he asked for declaration war. And he got it right. But then also in. Was it 2002? Three, I think. 2003, right. President Bush declared that Iraq was in. In possession of weapons of mass destruction and that convinced Americans to go to war against Iraq. Do you guys remember that? And then after the war was over, they realized that there were no weapons of mass destruction. You guys follow, I'm saying here. So whether that was misinformation or disinformation, it was nevertheless based on wrong information that the United States got involved in at war. Were. Right. You guys get what I'm saying? Questions, Comments? All right. Okay. So after United States declares the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution. And again, I want you guys to understand that Americans were 100 in favor of this, right? Not 100, but, you know, very, very strongly in favor of this. And the reason why was because America was very anti communist. Americans knew nothing about Vietnam. Right? If you were to ask, I read in, in a book, right. If you were to ask an American what was Saigon, they would tell you it was something to eat, right? They didn't know anything about Vietnam, but they knew about communism or at least they thought they did. Right? And they knew that if the American, the American. It was up to The Americans to stop communism. Right. So Americans were 100% before this in 1965. By 1969, Americans are almost 100% against it. And we'll have to see how that works out in the meantime. But that'll mean for later. Okay. At any rate, once the resolution has been declared, Johnson starts a bombing campaign against North Vietnam called Operation Rolling Thunder, which will last from 1965 until essentially till 1973. And in that period of time, there are going to be more bombs dropped on North Vietnam than there were all over the world during World War II. Right. And then the United States will introduce ground troops in 1965, 184,000 by the end of 1965. And then by 1968, which we're going to talk about on a different day, there's 500,000American troops in South Vietnam. That's half a million. Half a million American troops in South Vietnam. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? So, professor, the, the. So did the United States went into the war with Vietnam because of misinformation or was it, was it disinformation? Well, I don't think that anybody can actually answer that with, with certainty. I don't think the evidence is there to be able to answer that with certainty. We just have to leave it at that. Okay. I hear it. Yeah, I, I think that it's very easy if you're conspiracy minded, to say, oh, yeah, well, they were really wanted to get involved in the war anyway, and so they just use this as an excuse. Right. The problem is that it's very well known that Johnson didn't want to go to war in Vietnam. Right. And that he was reluctant but felt that he was forced into it, essentially. Right. You follow what I'm saying? So it's. If there was disinformation, it probably didn't come from the President. You see what I'm saying? Okay. All right. But again, we don't have the evidence. Right. And probably never will. Some things are just going to have to remain unknown. Right. Any other questions? Comments about any of this? Well, let me just say one thing then before I let you guys go. And that's going to be that in order for the United States to maintain an army of 500,000 men and women in Vietnam, you have to have a draft. Right. And that's going to be one of the major problems with American involvement in Vietnam is that by 1968, almost everybody realizes that the United States isn't fighting a war against communism in Vietnam. Then instead it's the war against colonialism. Right. Or in favor of colonialism, really. Right. And. And that the war is being fought by people who don't want to be there. So there's going to be a massive opposition to the. The war that we'll talk about, really, on a later date. What we're going to do coming up is on Monday we're going to discuss chapters five and six of the Meacham book. And then on Wednesday, we'll start with the Civil Rights movement. And then eventually the last couple of lectures will be about the late 60s, essentially 60s and 70s. Okay. Questions? Comments? Well, for all those times that I made you guys stay an extra minute late, I'm going to make up for it by letting you go early today. Live long and prosper. Have a good day, Professor. Thank you. Professor. Office hours today? I do. One o'? Clock? Yep. Okay. I have to meet with you and my English teacher. You're both at one o', clock, so what would be a good time for you? I'll be on from one to two. Okay. Thank you. All right. Bye. Bye. Have a good one, Professor. Thank you. We'll see you next time. Have a good weekend. You as well.