Power to the people. Power to the people. Power to the people. Power to the people. Power to the people. Power to the people. Power to the people. Power to the people. Right on. Say we want a revolution we better get it all right Word will you get on your feet? Enter the street singing Power to the people. Power to the people. Power to the people. Power to the people, People. Right on. Million working for nothing, you better give them what they really own? We got to put you down when we come into town Taking power to the people. Power to the people. Power to the people. Power to the people. Right on. And God will ask you Congress and brother, how do you treat your own woman back home? She got to be herself so she can be herself. Sending power to the people. Power to the people. Power to the people. Power to the people Right now. Now Sa. Power to the people. Power to the people. Right on. Power to the people. Power to the people. Power to the people. Power to the people. Right on. Power to the people. Power to the people. Aware. Power to the people. How you guys doing today? You guys are doing well. How about you? I'm doing all right, actually. I'm doing pretty good so far. I woke up on this side of the ground today. That's a plus, right? So that's the kind of stuff you say when you get into your 60s. Anyway. So how are you guys doing? Any questions or comments? Yeah, actually, I did have a question. Okay. The peer review, it wasn't really working for me when I was trying to do it, like, you had the password, and I was typing in the password, like, several different ways how it was given. It just wasn't working. I couldn't get in. What group are you in? The number of the group. I don't remember, but I'm with Morris, Christina. Oh, it's group number three. Yeah, I had the same issue. I had the same issue as well. Let me just hold on a second. I can fix that right now. I got in, but when I submitted it, it didn't say I was like. It was done like. Like afterwards on canvas. It didn't say it was. It was finished or anything. Okay. What. What group are you in? The same group? No, I'm in four. Yeah, I just want to get in, give one zeros, and get out, you know? Yeah, I get it. Yeah. Actually, the password should have been the same as your CRN plus your group. So your 518411. That should be your. Oh, yeah, that should be your group. Okay, so let me go look and post 518411. The link on the assignment that takes us to is the 518413. Well, that's no good. Yeah, hold on. Hold on a second. Okay. And it says it in the assignment description, too. Hold on a second. Oh, so let's look at group one, Peer evaluation edit. Well, that's not what it should take you to. All right, so if I click on that link, it brings me to the 518411. And I put in the code 515-18-411. And I get. Who's in there? Rose, Patrick, Jaime, Vandy, Gabriel. Is that right? That should be group one. That. That is group one. Are we. Are we talking about group one? No, group three. Cooper, Morris, Christina. Hold on a second. Mikhail. Yeah. Sorry about this, guys. Yeah, no worries. We'll get it figured out here. I do want you guys to do that, though. So let me just go here and here it. All right, go ahead and Wait, hold on. Yeah, go ahead and try it now. It went through for me this time. Okay, good. That's all I wanted then. Hopefully you guys are all set then. So let me go ahead. And we're gonna. We're gonna talk about the chapters five and six from that book. Right. And what did you guys think of it? You said chapters five and six of mecham. Yeah, that's what we're discussing, I thought was pretty interesting. I really. I. I kind of enjoy Meacham's thoughts of, like, how he described how fdr, I guess. I see. It seems like Meacham really likes fdr. I'm not gonna lie. FDR is, like, talked about a lot. Yeah, well, he's, He's. He's kind of one of those polarizing figures. In the United States. Most people who are very conservative still don't like FDR very much because they think that he made the United States socialist. But most, many other people, really, particularly people who lived through the Great Depression, think of Roosevelt as a real significant president. I think if you were going to name the significant presidents in American history, once you get past the founders, you would have to say that it was Lincoln, FDR and Reagan. You guys are with me because they were, for some reason, they, they were. They had a huge impact on the, on the nation. Right. So. So, yeah, I think that from somebody that's coming from Meacham's point of view, that would have been the fact that he really likes Roosevelt would have been something you would expect. Anybody else? Questions? Comments about the book? Have you been reading the book? You guys are good with it. Right. Okay. Do you think this book is helpful? Yeah, I think it's true. I think it's kind of nice. I mean, at some point, it'd be a little difficult to kind of understand what he's getting across, but, like, a lot of times it is, like, still fairly easy. You know, I feel like a lot of history books might be kind of thick sometimes, but this is more just like, commentary. And it's kind of, like, interesting to hear his thoughts and, like, I don't know. I enjoy it so far. Right. Do you think of it? Do you guys. When. When I. If I were to say. Let's say, try to remember back to the beginning of this semester. And if I were going to say. If I were to say, okay, I'm going to have you read this history book named the Soul of America, would you have thought of this as a history book? No, no, not really. It just felt like he was describing. I mean, not. Not history, but keen. The other book. The Visions. Yeah, that one. Like, when you. When I read it, I, like, definitely feel like it's a history book, but not really Meacham. Not really Meacham. The Soul of America. So do you think that Meacham is a history book now? I mean, because here's the thing. There's probably, I don't know how many, however many historians there are in the United States. Right. The primary work of a historian is to do what Meacham does. Right. It's just that Meacham has an audience. He has connections that make his work more accessible than most historians. Right. But most historians aren't writing textbooks. Most historians are writing books about some particular part of history. Meacham is a presidential historian, and that's why he writes what he writes. You follow what I'm saying? But then there were other people. There's other people. Like, for example, my specialty in history is modern Latin America. Okay? So the book that I wrote was about the United States relationship with Mexico during the Mexican American War. Right? And it's not. It's not as compelling a read as Meacham's book, which is why you never had. You never read my book and you probably never will. But. But the idea is that. That it is a history book. You follow what I'm saying here? This makes sense to you guys? So. So when we read Meacham. Now, here's the interesting thing about Meacham is he's pretty upfront with his bias. Have you noticed that? And what would you say that his bias is? I feel like he's more on the liberal side. Like he. Like he. He brings up, like, better angels and stuff like that. Bringing. Bringing light to. To a changing society around us, changing America, revolving America around us. Okay, so I'd say. Does anybody disagree with that? Does anybody disagree that he's kind of on the liberal side? Okay, so I would agree. Yeah. Okay, so here's the thing. Any book that you read that's written by a historian, and this includes Keen. Right. Is going to be biased. Right. And what you need to be able to do is to understand what that bias is. The bias doesn't take away from what he says, but it explains a lot about why he says it. You follow what I'm saying? That makes sense to you guys, and it's entirely possible. And this is true, actually. I've assigned this book to students who think it's a lot of nonsense, a bunch of liberal nonsense. Right. But I try to encourage them to try to understand what he's reading anyway, because we have to be able to understand what people who disagree with us are trying to say. Do you follow what I'm saying here? That makes sense to you guys? Okay, so just keep in mind that, yeah, it's biased, and I know it's biased, and I'm not trying to sell you the bias. I'm just trying to get you guys to think like historians would think. Okay? With. Use critical thinking, essentially. That makes sense to you guys. All right, let's go ahead and go into the questions. Let me go ahead and share the screen here. These are long questions, but there's only four of them. All right, so the first one, comment on Meacham's description of the challenges faced by the United states in the 1930s, particularly in terms of economics and the effects of financial insecurity on the public's faith in American institutions. So what would you. How would you say that you answered that part of the question? I'm checking right now? I said that the challenges faced by the United States, like, outline the extreme effects that tailed the Great Depression. And then. And then it was also during a time where they. There's a fear of a capitalist economy becoming a socialist and run by fascists. So there's a lot of fear of that arising. Okay, but now, do you. Did you get the sense that people in the 1930s were, or say, before the election of Roosevelt, were on board with the United States institutions? Think about, for example, we watched that movie about Upton Sinclair. Do you think that the people in California were. Thought that America was really working that The American government was really working. What do you guys think? I think 1930s. No. Yeah. Yeah. I think there was definitely doubt going on in a lot of different places, not just with the people. You know what I mean? Right. Well, I mean, yeah, in the. In the book, like, they even talked about how Wall street was potentially playing a coup of sorts. Right. And also that did happen. Yeah. Yeah. So I thought. I didn't know that was. That actually happened. So I thought that was really interesting. Yeah. Okay. And I didn't know that either until just a few years ago. But. And it was surprising, but not really, if you think about it, because I think one of the ways I think about America is that it is durable. I don't think about American government as being fragile, but I think it's a lot more fragile than we have come to believe. All right. I think that recent events have really shown that to us. So the fear that you guys are talking about is a fear that everybody had. I mean, it wasn't just the United States everybody had. Right. And how did people in Italy respond to that fear? Turning to fascism. Right. And how did people in Japan respond to that fear? Imperialistic. Well, militarism. Right. And so the. Remember that I told you guys at the BE when we did the lecture on the Depression was that at the end of the 1930s, the United States was the only truly capitalist democracy left in the world. Right. So what that means is that the fear that caused people to question American institutions was the same fear that had caused people around the world to question their democratic institutions. You follow what I'm saying? Only in the United States, that fear doesn't result in the end of democratic capitalism. Does that make sense to you guys? And that was because of the New Deal. We talked about that, and we'll talk a little bit more about it in a minute. But let's go ahead and go to the next part of the question and read this quote. Men will thank God on their knees 100 years from now that Franklin D. Roosevelt was in the White House in a position to give leadership to the thought of the American people and direction to the activities of their government in that dark hour when a powerful and ruthless barbarism threatened to overrun the civilization of the Western world. Okay, so what is this quote from the New York Times telling us? It's basically just saying that FDR was the. Was the reason that FDR was the reason why the United States survive. Okay. And when he says. When it says the dark hour, when a powerful and ruthless barbarism Threatened to overrun the civilization of the western world. What do you think that means? What's he referring to? Fascism, communism, all the different isms, Right, exactly. Ideologies have taken over other countries. Right? Like this. Hard times because of the fear. Exactly. Okay, so, so then the question is, okay, what if, if this quote is saying, well, the only reason why America survived was because of Roosevelt, right. Then I have to ask the question, do you think America would ever, whether Roosevelt was elected or not, do you think that Roosevelt would, that the United States would ever become a communist country? I don't, I don't think so. Just because of how the rules and legislation is, the balance, checks and balances, that I don't think that we would turn communist. Okay. We have to keep in mind that communism and capitalism are economic theories, they're not theories of government. Okay. And we often assume that communism is equal to totalitarianism because that's the way it was actually put into practice in the Soviet Union, North Korea, Cuba and other places. Right, okay. But it, but in theory, the idea behind communism really isn't, doesn't have to do with government. In fact, people can elect communist governments. Right. And that happened in, in Europe. Okay, so the question that we have to ask ourselves is, do you think that people in the United States would ever elect a communist government? I don't believe so, because like you said, Americans like their stuff, right? So I don't think that'd happen. Okay, so even if Roosevelt had never been president, the United States probably wouldn't have become communist. Even though, I mean, socialism seemed like a good thing. Upton Sinclair openly said, yeah, I'm a socialist. And, and he was very popular among people in some places in California. Why? Who do you think he was the most popular with socialists? Like were people that wanted money or needed. Okay, so well, obviously socialists. But which people supported him and which people opposed him? Proletarian conservative people opposed him. Right. And libertarian people supported him. Or, or some Democrats too. Right, A lot of Democrats, but really it had nothing to do with their party affiliation. It had to do with their economic well being. Right? So if you were a capitalist and you had, you like you owned a movie studio and you were a very wealthy capitalist, you would be against Upton Sinclair. Right. But if you were a worker who had lost your job and couldn't find any work, then you would be in favor of Upton Sinclair. Right. And so that tells us what about socialism, which I've already said to you guys, socialism really only looks appealing when, during financial crisis, like economic crisis. You don't have anything. The people who had nothing thought that socialism seemed like a good idea. Right. The people who had something thought it was a terrible idea. Right. It's still that way today, really, if you think about it. Right. And, and, but the idea, like I've said to you guys before, is that if, if you have a car and I don't have a car, I think you should lend me your car. But if I have a car and you don't have a car, I think you should get your own car or take the bus. Right. You guys follow what I'm saying here? Okay, so, so, so at any rate, we can see that that part of it is true, that socialism appeals to people when they have nothing. What was it that Roosevelt gave them that made them believe that they didn't have nothing? Hope. Exactly. Right. They had hope. They believed that Roosevelt. Roosevelt said he was going to fix the economy, and they believed that he was going to do it. Did he do it? But he definitely helped it. Yeah, he definitely helped it. He helped a lot of people. Yeah, right. He didn't, but he didn't really. The economy didn't recover because of the New Deal. You guys follow me here? Yeah. What it, what he really did was, as I mentioned to you guys when we said the lecture was he saved capitalism. Right? He was, he was, he made people believe that capitalism could still work even though it had been abandoned everywhere else in the world. World. Okay, all right, so let's, let's go to the next question then, which is that if the United States would never become communist, do you think that the United States would ever become fascist? Let's think about, well, what is fascism? What is fascism? Another name for it is corporatism. And corporatism, corporate, meaning a body, right? A corpus is a body. Okay? So corporatism, what it does is it is. It places all of the different segments of society under the umbrella of a single party, right? So in the United States, we have, you know, the liberal part, we have liberals, we have Democrats, we have Republicans, we have people who represent our interests in different groups. And the different groups in America theoretically work out their differences in open elections. Right? But in a corporate state, those differences are handled inside the party, and elections don't happen. You follow what I'm saying here? But the, the, the major aspect of fascism or corporatism is that is the idea of a strong leader, that the strong leader is going to be able to bring the different factions together to work for the benefit of everybody. Right? And, and so the problem with that is that the leader becomes identified with them, with the. With the government. So in Italy, we had Mussolini in. In Germany we had Hitler. In Spain, we had Franco. In Argentina, it was Juan Peron in. In Brazil, it was Coutulio Vargas. Right? They're these strong leaders that becomes a cult of personality in a way. The problem with that is that if that strong leader passes from the scene, the movement falls apart. You follow what I'm saying? So the only place where that really didn't happen was in Mexico. In Mexico, after the Mexican revolution in the 1930s, they established the PRI, the Pre Partido Revolutionario Institutional, which essentially was a corporatist government that worked out the differences between the liberals and the conservatives and the industrialists and the workers and the militarists and all these different people inside the party. Right? They did have elections, but the elections were mostly for show because whoever was put forward as the candidate by the Pre would be the president. And it was that way all the way up until 2000. You guys follow what I'm saying? But the difference is that the reason why the PRE lasted for so long was because it wasn't associated with an individual. The president was very powerful, but he was only president for six years. That was it. Right? So that's why in Mexican politics they have the saying, God dies every six years. Right. Do you follow what I'm saying here? Okay. So now, thinking about what I just said about corporatism, with the idea of a strong leader bringing everybody together to solve all their problems, can you see Americans going for that? Can you see Americans choosing that? Yeah, kind of. Yes. Explain. I just feel like people are really easy to, like, group together. People like to follow my crazy individuals anyway, that just have a lot of charisma, like Adolf, Hitler or anybody. Huh. I just feel like it would be really easy for someone to convince a bunch of people to just that they're the best leader, right? He. Well, Hitler. Let's think about Hitler fear for a second. What Hitler did was he convinced the people that he could solve their problem. And if the real problem was that they were. They were, was the Jews, right? So he got everybody angry at the Jews. He didn't invent anti Semitism, but he weaponized it. And he used that to convince the people that he was going to solve that problem. Right? And people bought it. Okay. Do you think that could happen in the United States? Definitely, yeah, I think so. I mean, like, I think it's. I think it's more. More likely in countries that are like, the people are much more nationalistic. And I feel like America is one of those countries that are more lean towards that, you know? Right. We're much more like, oh, we're American, so we gotta do the American way or no way. Or, like we're gonna lose our game, you know, I mean, America first. Exactly. So I feel like we're much more inclined to fall down that path. You know what I mean? Okay. All right. Okay. We'll just leave it at that for now. Questions or comments so far? Let's look at the second question. Mitchum comments on page 169 on FDR's efforts to be on behalf of Jews during World War II. One wishes for a better outcome for wiser heads, for a more compassionate public, yet one wishes in vain. The only comfort, if we can call it that, is that a knowledge of our past failings may equip us to confront evil without delay when evil comes again. For it will. Okay, now let's think about this for a second. What. First off, what do you think that Meacham is really saying there? Do you think that Meacham is complimenting FDR and the Americans on the way that they responded to the crisis of Jewish people in Europe? No, I think he's just saying that as one nation, we're always going to encounter different types of problems. Where it's international or domestic. There's always going to be a problem we may or may not be or, like, have a huge hand in. Right. Okay. But so now it says here, a knowledge of our past may equip us to confront evil without delay when evil comes again, for it will. So what is the evil that. That Meacham is talking about here? Maybe he's talking about, like, fear. I feel like a lot of what he was talking about in this chapter or not in this chapter, again, this section of the book, it was more just like people using, like, fear as a tool sort of to gain power. FDR was even trying to fight against that, which why in the speech sort of included, like, you know, the only thing to fear is, like, fear itself, obviously. Right. I figured out the common theme in this. Okay. But we're talking about. In this case, we're talking about the Jews during World War II. So what would be the evil involved there? Hitler. Yeah. What did Hitler do? Holocaust. Holocaust, right. Mass genocide. He blamed everything on the Jews, and eventually they came up with the Final Solution, which was to kill all the Jews. Right. And the. When we talk about how did America respond to that, particularly fdr. Right. Was that a Success or a failure? Do you think that that was something that Americans look. Can look back on with, with pride? Didn't we, like. Yeah. Didn't we, like, let it happen for a while? I believe. Okay, let me give you an example, and I'm going to give you extra credit about this. There was a story in the LA Times a couple years ago, and it was about a ship that was filled. The passengers were Jewish refugees from Germany, and they were not allowed to embark anywhere in any country. And eventually they came to the United States and the United States turned them away and they went back to Germany and they ended up in concentration camps. Right. You following what I'm saying here? Okay, so would we think about that as something that we would be. Would we would want to tell our children about? No, I don't remember. I don't think we would want to tell our tuition about that. Okay. All right, so, so now here's. When we, we think about that, then it says that if we remember that a knowledge of our past failings may equip us to confront evil without delay when evil comes again. For it will. So is evil going to come again or has it come again? Yes. Yeah. So explain that to me. What kind of evil is it? What's the evil this time? Well, if, if we're referencing our past or I guess our history with our past evil, then it would be another form of. Another form of Hitler. Well, I'm talking about. It was, it wasn't really Hitler. It was, it was the, his, his idea. Right. His motivating ID ideal. Weaponizing anti Semitism. And, but now anti Semitism is only one flavor of what. Evil. Evil. Right. But what kind of evil? Prejudice. It's an ism. Is communic. Or racism. Racism. Racism. Racism. So does the United States. Has the United States been confronted with racism? Yeah, with the return of evil. And, and we're not talking. I mean, there's, there's. And we can think about this in two different ways. That we can talk about civil rights, which we're going to talk about on Wednesday, but the evil that we're talking about today is the fear of the foreigner. Right. So in the 1930s, the, the other. The foreigner was the Jew. And we didn't want the Jews to come in, so we let them die. Right. And. But the, the, the evil today, the, the, the other today isn't the Jewish. Who is it today? Well, under the Trump administration, it was illegal immigrants and Muslim countries. Yeah. Okay, so Muslims and Spanish American, Hispanic Americans or Hispanic people, generally speaking. Yes. Right. Okay. So. So did we learn from the error of our ways during World War II or not? No. If we. Yeah, we still. No, I don't think so. No. Yeah. I mean. I mean, like, I guess it's just one thing to, like, sit back and think of every action, like. Or relating it to the past to see how. How it would benefit us in the future. I guess we failed to do that. Okay. In the last administration, so we've failed to remember. So we are doomed to repeat yes? Yeah, pretty much, yeah. Okay. So now, here's the thing, though. I want you to think about it a different way, and that is, if there were a boatload of Jews that came to Miami and said, we want to get off the boat, do you think Americans would. Would turn that boat away today? Okay. Or anywhere in the United States, San Diego full of Jews come to San Diego, Would they turn. Would. Would we turn them away? Say, no, probably not. Yeah. Probably today, probably not. Yeah. Right. Okay. But now if a boatload of. Who. Let me think. People from Central America came into the harbor in San Diego and said, we want to get off. We want to be an American, we want to be saved from violence that's happening in our country, would you say, oh, yeah, come on in. What do you guys think? No. No. No. So, yeah, there are people already with already fixed prejudices and stereotypes against. Right. So we learned a lesson, but we didn't learn the whole lesson. I guess our learning is incremental, selective learning. Yeah. I mean, we learned the lesson, but we didn't learn. It's kind of like they say about military. They're always fighting the last war. They're prepared for what happened before, but they're not prepared for the differences that they face now. Right. And I guess that's kind of where we are. Any questions or comments about that? I think that's really interesting how it's sort of like nowadays you look at it and we're like, oh, well, we don't want to be anti Semitic, so we gotta accept those guys. Right, Right. We look at what's happening now, and it's like, well, I mean, they are. They are illegal. You know, you kind of like, put your hands in the air. Right. They're breaking the law. But it's a similar situation, you know, I mean, so. So. Yeah, so. So I'm gonna. I want you to know something that I. I learned about Roosevelt, because we think a lot of people think of Roosevelt as a real heroic figure, but other people really, really despised him. And especially during the time that he was president. Right. And among those people were, like, the bankers who were afraid that he was going to implement socialism, which would take away from their profits. Right. And so they actually engineered a. A coup against him. And the only reason why the coup failed was because the guy who they asked to lead their army basically blew the whistle on him. Right. And most of us don't really know about that because Roosevelt wanted to keep it quiet. He didn't want. He didn't want the news to get out that the United States government was in danger from within. You. You follow what I'm saying here? Because, I mean, there was a lot of. I mean, talk about the fragility of American politics today. It was even that or worse during the 1930s. Right, okay. So. So one of the interesting things that I find, though, is do you guys remember that when Obama was elected president in 2008, there were a large number of people in the United States that said, oh, he's a Muslim, he's an enemy of the United States. Do you guys remember that? I was like 13. I was like nine years old, probably. But yeah, well, I mean, still a lot of people think that Obama. Yeah, right. And. And so as a Muslim, why would it be important to say that he was a Muslim? Because that makes him, what, less American? An enemy of America. Right. Because many people believe that Muslims are the enemies of America, which is not true, but a lot of people do believe that. Right. And. But during Roosevelt's administrations, many people accused him of being Jewish. They said he was secretly Jewish. Right. You get what I'm saying? Why would they do that? Because at that time, that meant that being Jewish was what, Anti American being against America? Because the way the Americans thought was unless you were a Protestant Christian, you were anti American. Really? Does this, does this relate to, like, JFK kind of hiding his. Like him being Catholic because he knew that the Catholicism wasn't really appreciated at the time? Well, it wasn't. Catholicism was the same thing as, I mean, to be a Catholic was to be of a different race almost. Catholics were not considered to be part of our. What's the word? I'm saying they were not considered to be loyal to the United States because they owed allegiance to the Pope or that's what people thought. You follow what I'm saying? And that was the. You guys remember watching that movie about the 20s, right? And Al Smith went. Ran for president, I guess, or whatever it was, right. And. And the one thing that they were afraid of was that because he was a Catholic, that he would take orders from the Pope. Do you follow? I'm saying that's, that's the, the, the, the campaign that they used against him. Does that make sense to you guys? Okay. And so, yeah, when, when Kennedy was elected as a Catholic, everybody knew he was a Catholic, but it wasn't something he, he basically had to come out and say, well, yeah, I'm Catholic, but. But I'm an American. Right? And I think that one of the things that if we talk about learning lessons and, and progress, I don't think anybody really spent very much time thinking about the fact that Biden is a Catholic. It wasn't really that big of an issue when he be. When he ran for president as it was when Kennedy ran. You guys get what I'm saying? And what's even more interesting than that is that Bernie Sanders ran for president as a Jew. Right? And, and nobody brought up the fact that he was Jewish. They didn't like his socialism. Right. But they, but nobody, nobody made an issue out of him being Jewish. You see what I'm saying? So that shows something about American views, doesn't it? What do you guys think? Yeah, Okay. I think it, Yeah, I think it ties back into what we were saying earlier about sort of like how we learn. We're only like small bits of it. You know what I mean? Right, right. It's kind of like. Here's an interesting fact. I don't know if you guys know this, but the expected retention rate of a class like this history class, the, the best expected retention rate is 25. Right. So. So that means that of all the things that I'm teaching you, the best I can hope for is that you'll remember 25 of it. I hope you remember the good stuff. Right. But at any rate, that. That's the same way we learn as a people, too. We, we learn, we hear the whole lesson, but we don't really aren't able to apply it. And so we only learn certain parts of it. Does that make sense to you guys? Okay, talk about McCarthy. Right? And what I want to talk about with McCarthy is apocalyptic politics. What does that mean? It's like talking about how this is our last chance to do something before everything turns bad and it's the end. Right. When you say the apocalypse, what do you think you're talking about? Communism world? Well, I mean, in, in general terms, the apocalypse is the. Is when there's a great battle between Jesus and Satan or between heaven and hell. Right. And then, and then that's the end of Everything. The establishment of a new order. You follow? I'm saying, so the apocalypse is the end of everything. Okay, now let me just give you an example. I mean, we're very familiar, I think, with this apocalyptic thinking in our politics. All right? But let me tell you about another era in American history. And this goes back to the very beginning of the republic. Right? And the very beginning of the republic, there were two different parties. There were the Federalists, who were led by Alexander Hamilton, and the Democratic Republicans who were led by Thomas Jefferson. And the Federalists were convinced that the Democratic Republicans were a bunch of wild eyed revolutionaries who would destroy the Constitution if they ever were able to take power. And the Democratic Republicans were convinced that the Federalists were a bunch of monarchists who wanted to destroy the Republic and establish a monarchy. Right? And so if you think about, okay, is there a way that you can compromise between monarchy and republic? And the answer is no. Right? And so they were very divided. The two different groups in the United States were as divided as left and right are today. You guys are with me. Okay. And then. And then what? That all kind of comes to a head in the election of 1800. In the election of 1800, Jefferson runs against Adams, who's a Federalist. Right. And the election ends up being controversial. It can't be decided by the electoral college, and it goes to the Congress. The problem is that the Congress is controlled by Federalists. And Jefferson had pretty close to. The Federalist candidate was never going to win. Right. So what ended up happening is it became a political crisis because the Congress wouldn't elect the President who had been elected by the people. And in the end, what ended up happening was that Jefferson and Hamilton made a deal, Right? They made a compromise. And you have to understand, this was a terrible compromise. Right? And Jefferson agreed that he would leave Hamilton's economic system alone. And Hamilton agreed that he would stop blocking Jefferson from becoming president. You guys are following me on all this, right? Okay, so there's a compromise, but they kept it secret. They didn't want anybody to know, okay, that they had made this compromise. But then Jefferson did become president. Okay? And when he did, this was part of his inaugural address. Okay, let me just read this. Every difference of opinion is not a difference of principle. We have called by different names brethren of the same principle. We are all Republicans. We are all Federalists. If there be any among us who would wish to dissolve this union or to change its republican form, let them stand undisturbed as monuments of the safety with which error of opinion may be tolerated where reason is left free to combat it. Okay, so essentially what he's saying here is that both he and Hamilton had to give up a lot in terms of their own ideology in order to save the country. You guys follow? I'm saying here they had to make this hard compromise because to them, the country was more important than their own ideology. Does that make sense? You guys. You guys got it? Okay. For now, compare that with McCarthy's view. McCarthy's view was if you're not. If you don't agree with me, you're either a communist or you've been duped by communists. Or. Or you're. What does he say? You're either communist, supportive of communism, or duped by communists. Right? So it's. It's me against everybody else. Right? And if I give up anything at the end. At the end of everything, communism would be the end of everything. You already said that Communism was. What was the apocalypse in American thinking? Right. Okay, so. So now if you think about these two different points of view, right? What is the difference between them? McCarthy, when, like, he had anyone that disagreed with him, he immediately coined them communist or against America, while Jefferson, Hamilton, when anyone disagreed with their ideals, they were tolerant and reasoned and. Right. Okay, let me. Let me give you another kind of example. Going back to 2016, there was a poster, a meme that was put out that was the election between Clinton and Trump. Right? And this meme was Hillary Clinton as the devil, and she's fighting against Jesus. Right? Do you guys understand? What is that saying? Hillary's the devil. Like, she's right. Well, she's gonna make America out. Okay? Yeah. All right, so now here's. Think about this. Now. Can you negotiate with the devil? It doesn't end well. Yeah, try. Can you compromise with the devil? I guess. What's. What's the difference between negotiate and. There's no difference, really. Negotiating and compromising. Negotiating ends up with a compromise, right? Yeah, but you can't negotiate with the devil, right? Because. Because the devil's gonna. If you. If you give in to the devil, he'll take everything. Right? You understand this. This is what apocalyptic thinking is, right? So we can see apocalyptic thinking in American politics. Right? You guys follow what I'm saying? Because if you're. If you disagree with me politically, we don't. We can't think of ourselves as Americans, all Americans with different points of view. We have to think about ourselves as the right and the wrong. Remember that Trump said that Biden hated God. Right. It wasn't that Biden was, you know, disagreed with me on politics or something like that. But Biden hates God. Right? And if. If somebody hates God, can you negotiate with that? You follow what I'm saying? Okay, so. So now when we talk about America's better angels, which one of those actually reflects what we think of as America's better? I think the more tolerant one. Well, the. The one where we are actually able to place an emphasis on what we have in common rather than on what divides us. You guys get what I'm saying? Okay, so. So now I think you can tell me whether you think I'm right or not, but I think that we have a real crisis in apocalyptic thinking in American politics today. Right? Do you guys agree with that or not? I think that's fair. I think even Biden would agree with that, too, probably, because when he was trying to run for president, he'd talk about how he wants to bring the temperature down and make people, like, see each other again. And, you know, he wanted to be the president that, like, would be willing to do a compromise, you know, because he felt like that wasn't happening. A lot of presidencies. Okay, so now how do you get. Do you think it's good for American politics to act like that? Do you think that. Think about the election I told you about. Election of 1800. The only reason why the Republic survived was because both sides were willing to compromise. Right. Do you think American democracy can survive when neither side is willing to compromise? No. Okay, so how do you get past that compromise? But I can't compromise with you. You're the devil. Do you see that? You see the dilemma that we're in? Yeah. Yeah. So how do you get past that? Do you guys remember not too long ago, I gave you guys an extra credit that showed a video about something that happened in Washington, D.C. a, there's a rally. Right. And then, yeah. BLM group spoke at it or, like, allowed them to speak. It was a pro Trump rally, and the leader of the pro Trump rally allowed the leader of the Black Lives Matter group to speak. And what happened? Some found some common ground, right? Yeah, they found common ground. The guy said, we want the same thing you guys want. Right? We don't want what's different from you guys. Do you see what I'm saying? And then what happened? Did they continue to throw rocks and insults at each other? No, they were. Go ahead. Oh, yeah. They were, like, shaking hands and greeting one another. Right. And taking pictures with each other's kids and stuff like that. Right. And and what I mean, I can tell you probably that where, when they left there that day, they didn't stop being Trump supporters or, or Black Lives Matter supporters, but they had a better understanding of who the other side was and how did that happen. Both sides coming together and trying, trying to look at the other person's side. Both people compromising, I guess they listened to each other, right? Yeah, they, they were like, able to open up a dialogue with each other, right? And so that's the way a lot of people say, well, if the politicians would just stop doing blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. It's not the politicians, it's us. We have the vote, right? We need to be able to talk to each other. And the whole system, the way it's set up right now is trying to keep us from talking to each other, other, because that's what keeps the status quo, right? I know you guys are going to think I'm crazy if you don't already, but I know the solution to this. The solution to this is to change Election day to the 4th of July and have a national barbecue, right? Where we all go out and drink some beer and have hot dogs and talk to each other and then we vote, right? And so instead of. Because here's what happens if you get a whole bunch of people together at a barbecue. They don't care about politics so much. It's, it's going to be mostly, let's have some fun, let's talk about whatever, you know, and you find common ground, right? So I, I really believe that the solution to our political problem is a national barbecue. But anyway, that's, that's neither here nor there. But I do think that we need to start to talk to each other, right? Questions? Comments? All right, last one. Richard Hofstadter, he wrote a very, very, very interesting book called Anti Intellectualism in American History, right? Which I would recommend to you guys, although it's probably pretty difficult for people at your level, but nevertheless, it's a really great book about how Americans confuse competence with democracy. So the solution ends up being that my ignorance is because we're all equal in democracy. My ignorance is the same as your, you know, PhD. And just because you have a PhD doesn't mean you actually know anything and that sort of thing. But anyway, let's look at what he said. This is about something else, right? And he says the growth of the mass media of communication and their use in politics have brought politics closer to the people than ever before and have made politics a form of entertainment in which the Spectators feel themselves involved. Thus it has become, more than ever before, an arena into which private emotions and personal problems can be readily projected. Mass communications have made it possible to keep the mass in an almost constant state of political mobilization. What is he saying there? Mass media is like. It played a huge role that it kind of. I guess it kind of affected politics in a way, and the way people interacted and their knowledge of politics. Right. And it was like in. It was in the palm of their hands, too. They could easily access it and talk to each other about it and spread more information quicker. Okay, but now let's think about this for just a second. What is the ultimate motivation for providing entertainment? More viewership. More viewer. Viewership would give you what? More money. Money. More money, exactly. Now, let me. Let me tell you a little story here. Right up until the 1980s, there was a doctrine of the Federal Communications Commission called, called the Fairness Doctrine. And the Fairness Doctrine essentially said that if you were going to broadcast any political opinion, you had to also broadcast an alternative opinion. And what that did was it prevented the dissemination, the unchallenged dissemination of false information through mass communication. Right. Through broadcast. Okay, you guys follow what I'm saying here. Okay? So. So in the 1980s, that was revoked. And. And that's when we start to see the rise of political radio, right? Political radio is some personality goes on the radio and starts saying things that are very controversial. Right? And what that does, if it's controversial, then people want to pay attention to it, right? Think about when we talked about the Spanish American War and the role of yellow journalism, right? Yellow journalism was newspaper men making up stories to get people to read their newspapers. But why did they want people to read their newspapers? To get them more. Yes, to get them more money. Get more ad. Ad revenue. Right. Okay, so. So now, so we have these guys who are these political characters on talk radio, and they're. They're saying things that maybe they believe, maybe they don't believe. But the point behind it is to get. You want to be as sensational as possible so you can get the widest viewership possible or listenership possible. And the reason for that would be so that you can get the most money possible. Right? You guys get what I'm saying? So the whole thing is motivated by the profit motive. Okay? You get what I'm saying? This is. And this is where it starts. But the problem is that there are a number of people out there who are listening to what this guy is saying. And what the guy's saying is exactly what they want to hear. And so it creates believers. Right. So whether or not the actual personality believes what they're saying, they're actually creating a reality by their saying it. Does that make sense to you guys? So, so it starts off as a cynical ploy for ad revenue and it ends up being a political movement. You guys get what I'm saying? This is the effect of mass media on, on American politics. Do you guys believe that? So what do you think? It's really interesting. I didn't know we had that law in place and then got rid of it. That's actually super interesting. They probably got rid of it because it affected, like, freedom of speech, I'm assuming. Well, that's. That was the thing. It's like it was during the time of the so called Reagan revolution. And the Reagan revolution was about the government. Get the government off your back. Right. The government can't tell you what to say on the radio, you know, and so that's why they. That's why they repealed it. And a lot of people today would still say the same thing, say we should bring back the Fairness Doctrine. So, no, you can't tell people what to. What to say on the radio. Right. Any. Any other comments about that? Did you guys think it was a useful exercise? I definitely think so, yeah. I thought it was useful. Yeah. Tell me how this helps you. Well, I find that the book helps a lot of stuff in the past and context. And then the questions that we answer, like, they're not usually questions that I would ask myself. So it just like, lets me think about the entire book even more. Okay. It was a lot of context into how we got like, where we are today from the past and. Oh, well, I'm glad you said that. And because. And I hope you're not saying it. I'm saying. I said I hope you're saying it because you believe it. Because that's exactly why I want us to do this. I want us to realize that there's a direct link between our past and our present. Right. And it's a study of history. Isn't to learn so much about the past as it is about to guide us in the present. Does that make sense to you guys? Do you think that this is. This is doing that? Yeah, I'd say it's preparing us correctly to. To. To focus on why the way we are now, rather than just focusing on why the way we were. Okay. All right, so I guess I'm gonna leave it at that. Any other questions or comments about any of this or Anything that I can help you with? I had like a question that was like, unrelated to, to this more so. Okay. Well, sort of. Not really. You know how you said that most of the other countries besides the US Will turn to alternate forms, like turn away from democracy and capitalism in a way, other forms of government. Right. Do you think that's the reason, like, you know, why the United States didn't turn to those. And so that has any relationship to like the healthcare system and those countries versus ours, like there's being like a universal system. And I was being. Well, exactly. That's exactly when they started with the, you know, universal healthcare and things like that in Europe. That's why they have a national healthcare system in every country in Europe. Okay. No, that's what I was thinking about because I was like, every country. Well, most first world countries besides ours has universal healthcare, you know, and that's, that's like a big conversation topic today. Yeah, we're against. Go ahead. I'm sorry. No, you're fine. I was done. Because we're against socialism. We don't want socialized medicine. Right. Yeah. Our medical industry is pretty big, huh? Huh? Exactly. We don't want no damn socialized medicine. Right. Because there'll be death panels and. But you guys have heard it all. We will monetize it, though. That's fun. What's that? I said we will monetize it though, right? I mean, so we end up with the system where everybody has the ability to have access, but nobody, I should say it this way, they have the theoretical ability to have access, but they don't have the, the concrete ability to have access because they can't afford it. Right. Anybody that can afford it can get it, but the problem is nobody can afford it. So that means that if you're wealthy, you can get health care, but if you're not, you're going to die. Sorry, any other questions or comments about that? I was, I was thinking that from the very beginning when first class started, and I was like, that's really interesting. That's true. And turned out to be true. And I was like, oh, wow. What turned out to be true that, that this had to do with like the universal healthcare systems in other countries. Oh, yeah. Well, it does. Yeah. That's when, that's when we saw Western Europe during the Depression is when they, they moved towards socialism. So really every country in Europe has some form of socialism. Right? In, in England, in France, every country except for Spain was actually, they're more socialist now, but they were, they were Corporatist, right? But also Sweden, Denmark and Norway, Finland, they became socialist social democracies, what they call it, right? That doesn't mean that the government owns everything, but it means that the government regulates the economy in such a way that everybody gets help. So everybody gets education, everybody gets health care. And the price of that is everybody paying high taxes. Right? But if you get everything you want, who cares how much money you've got, right? Well, that's not the American way of thinking about it anyway. But all right, so anyway, I'm not trying to make you guys into socialists. I'm just trying to get you guys to learn how to think critically, right? And I don't mind it if you think I'm a wild high liberal that you would rather not listen to, then you know, bring it up to me. Let's talk about it, right? Questions, Comments? Because I, I have a student in another class who thinks I'm a wild eyed liberal. And that's okay, I don't mind. I still like him anyway. All right, any questions or comments? I'll see you guys on Wednesday. Live long and prosper. Thank you. Thank you, Professor. Thank you. Have a good one, guys. Thank you. Thank you. Have a nice day.