 All right, so what I'm going to do I'm going to talk about the process of industrialization I'm going to do kind of theoretically But I want you to keep in mind that behind everything I'm talking about here I'm going to talk about the process of industrialization And I'm going to talk about the process of the real people that live in, you know, Morenci This is kind of the application of the kind of theory that I'm talking about So in order for us to do this, we're going to go back in time And we're going to go all the way to the Middle Ages Are we going to see the land tenure system on the screen now? Yes Yes Yes Okay And so the land tenure system was called feudalism And it was based on what's called the fief, right? And a fief was an area of land That's F-I-E-F I know it's I told you I'm not very good at this But in terms of drawing The fief was an area of land Now if we think about it in a kingdom, the king owned all the land, right? But what he did was his special people that helped him, the lords, got access to certain areas of land And the area of land that the lord would get was called a fief, okay? Now, as far as I know, there was never a square fief anywhere in Europe This is just a kind of a depiction of the fief, right? And what we'll see then in the fief is the social order of the Middle Ages, right? And there's a village, right? And then there's an area of land called the Fields of the Lord And that's where the lord lives in his manor, right? And the rest of the land is called Commons Should we be taking notes on this? You've heard of the Commons, Boston Common, for example, right? Okay, so now the way it works is that the lord has access to the produce of the land, alright? What that means is that he doesn't own the land and he doesn't own the people, but he has rights to the people's labor, okay? And as having rights to the people's labor, what that means is that the people owe him labor in return for his protection But also being allowed to use the Commons to grow their own produce, right? So they grow grains and sheep and things like that, right? So the kind of ideal of the Middle Ages was that the peasants would work in the Fields of the Lord and produce produce, right? Agricultural goods that they would sell and then the lord would make money off of that And in return for that, the commoners would work in the fields for their own goods, right? Later, what happens is that the lords will figure out they can't make very much money by selling vegetables So they basically allow the peasants to get money however they want And then the peasants, instead of paying labor, they pay rent, right? In cash So that's why you pay rent to the landlord, okay? You guys are with me? Okay, all right. So now this is the it's an agrarian system, right? And the basis of wealth here is in the land, okay? And because the land is controlled by the Lord, then that means that the Lord controls essentially all the wealth or the other way around, okay? You guys got this? Questions? Should we be taking notes on this? Even though this isn't I'm sorry I can't hear. Can you say it again? Should we be taking notes on this? Yes, absolutely. Like writing this diagram and stuff? That wouldn't hurt. Okay. Okay. What does that say at the top? I'm sorry? What does that say at the top? The like the... Feef? No, under Feef. Under Feef. Oh, manor. It's a manor. Okay. Okay. Okay, so. All right, so any more questions? You guys got that? Let me go ahead and move on then. So this is kind of an agrarian system. And even though it's an agrarian system and that most of the produce is agricultural, like sheep, you know, stuff like that, right? And also, excuse me, this system is basically is what they would call a subsistence system. And the reason why it's a subsistence system is because people make just enough for everybody to live. Right? So you need everybody in the village to grow enough produce for everybody to live. All right? That's why we call it subsistence. You guys with me? Everybody's needed. All right. Okay. Now, even though it's an agrarian system, they still have industry. Okay. The industry, they have to make things. Right? Some things that they need to make like cannons and stuff like that have to be made up in the hills because that's where the water power is. Right. But stuff that you need for the home, like, you know, horseshoes and pots and pans and hats and shoes and things like that are made in the village in a cottage. So what that means is that the peasant will have a cottage and in the cottage, he will have a sorry in the cottage, he will have a save some kind of a tool to make something. So you might have an anvil so you can make horseshoes or something like that. Right. The example that we're going to use is going to be textiles. Right. So the British Empire essentially was based on woolen textiles or cotton textiles. And so let's say a textile would be something like a sweater. And if you needed a sweater made, you would go to the person who in the village who made sweaters. And that person would have a loom. And what you would do is you would tell the person, I want a sweater. And they'd measure you up and you'd give them some money. And they'd say, okay, come back in three days or four days or whatever. Right. And, and when you come back, then, you know, I'll give you your sweater. Right. And then the person, the person in the cottage would use the loom to create the sweater. And then when the person came back to get their sweater, they would just get a perfect sweater because it fits them perfectly because it was made just for them. You guys get what I'm saying. Okay, so, so that's what we call a cottage industry. Why do we call it cottage industry because it happens in the cottage. Right. And in the cottage industry, we make a small quantity of high quality goods at a reasonable price. Okay. So a small quantity means that that's supposed to be a C. Okay. Again, I'm revolutionary there for a minute. Okay. Small quantity because you can only make one thing at a time. One person, one loom makes one thing. Right. High quality because it's made just for you. And reasonable price because if it wasn't reasonable, you couldn't afford it. Right. So, so basically the, the industrial output was a small quantity of high quality goods at a reasonable price. You guys got me here? Questions, comments about this. Okay, now one thing that we want to notice is that if I'm the peasant that owns the loom that creates the sweater. Okay. What do I get in return for making that sweater? Money, money, profit, right. Money. The profit or the surplus. Right. So, so you buy the wool and you put your labor in and what and the money that's left over. That's what you get to keep. And why do you get to keep it? Because you own the loom. Right. You see what I'm saying? That makes sense to you guys. Okay. Now let's move forward. The discovery of America had enormous impact on Europe. Okay. And one of the main impacts of the discovery of America was that Europe started to be able to extract resources from the Americas that made Europe wealthy. Right. So, so if you remember, I said before that, that the population, the economy of this, of this system was subsistence, meaning everybody, they needed everybody to produce enough for everybody to live. Right. It was also stagnant. The population of Europe was stagnant really throughout the Middle Ages. And the reason why was because they couldn't grow enough food to, to, for the population to grow. What would happen would be they'd have really good crops for a couple of years, and the population would start to grow. And then they'd have bad crops and there'd be a famine and people would die off. Right. So, so the population remained relatively stagnant over a thousand years. Right. But when, when after America was discovered, they introduced new crops from the Americas, like the potato. Right. You wouldn't think of potatoes as being very sexy in terms of world history. Right. But because of the introduction of the potato, the European population started to grow. Right. And, and so there's going to be an increase in population in Europe as the result of the discovery of America. Beyond that, there's going to be other resources like, for example, silver, that the Spanish are able to extract silver from Mexico. That's why there were so many miners in Mexico. Right. They were able to extract silver from Mexico and Peru. And that made the Spanish Empire very rich. And then later the British and the French and the Dutch will get in on that as well. Right. And so eventually what ends up happening is that Europeans have a very interesting cash flow problem, cash flow problem. And the problem is they have more cash than they know what to do with. And what we'll see, it'll start off with people, the, the, the people who are say plantation owners in America are going to go, they didn't, they didn't go to America because they wanted to live in America. They wanted to live in Europe. Right. And they wanted to live high in Europe. Okay. And so what happens is that they go, they go to the Americas, they make lots of money, they go back to Europe, they buy out the old aristocracy. And then they buy their places to live and they buy their manners and they, they spend money buying positions at court and they spend money buying art and things throughout Europe. Right. And once they've done that, they, they, they own essentially everything and they still have more money than they know what to do with. And so eventually what they do is they start to invest that, that money in technology. Right. And the technology that they, they invested in is, is going to be kind of twofold. Right. So what we'll start with the first thing, this technology revolution is going to the one thing is that there will be a creation of machines that will make production more productive. Right. Okay. Manufacturing will be more productive. And there's a certain machine that does that. Does anybody want to guess what that is? Conveyor belt. Sorry. Conveyor belt. It's the steam engine. Steam engine. The steam engine. Yes. Yeah. Okay. So the steam engine, what the steam engine does is it revolutionizes a couple of different things. On the one hand, we have what's called the transportation revolution. And what that means is that essentially the speed of the world increases from about three miles per hour to a screaming 25 miles per hour. Right. And you're gonna say, well, 25 miles per hour is not very fast. But you guys have been, many of you have sat on the freeway on a 405 freeway in LA, and you know that 25 miles an hour is fast. Right. But the main thing, if you think about it in terms of numbers, right, is that that 25 miles per hour is eight times a little over eight times faster than three miles per hour, which is the speed of the world. Okay. And so if it's eight times faster, what that really does is it makes the world eight times smaller, doesn't it? That essentially the world is eight times smaller than it was before. Okay. And, and, and if you think about, for example, in terms of American history, many of you guys have heard of Lewis and Clark. Tell me about Lewis and Clark. They went from first airplane. I'm sorry. They flew the first airplane from America to Europe. Correct. No, that was didn't they pioneer, the West Coast. Yeah. They, they're, they, they actually went to the West Coast. Right. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Lewis and Clark expedition right. Yeah. Right. Lewis and Clark expedition they went from Pittsburgh to the west coast of the United States. And then they ended their expedition in in Louisville, Kentucky. Right. So how long did it take for them to go from Pittsburgh to the west coast and back to Louisville? Anybody know? It was 18 months, 18 months, right. Okay. So that was in 1803. And that was before the introduction of the steam engine. Okay. But if we go to 1865, there's the completion of the transcontinental railroad. And now it's possible to go from the East Coast to the West Coast in two weeks. And that's what happens. And it's because of that, that Americans were able to subdue the North American continent. If you think about when Jefferson bought Louisiana, he thought that it would take 1000 years to settle that territory. And yet the whole thing was settled within a century. Right. And it's because of the transportation revolution. So that has an enormous influence on world history on American history. Okay. Questions, comments? You guys are good. I was going to say the original diagram, you do of the thief and such. It reminds me of the town that the copper mines were at and how the sort of the company was sort of the lord of the thief and all the workers lived on that thief and paid rent to the company itself whilst working for them. It's similar to that. It looks similar to that. Well, it is similar to that because one of the things you'll notice is one of the things you did notice actually in the movie that we watched, right, was that there was the company store. The only place where they could buy stuff was from the company store. Right. And what ends up happening is that you're getting cheated at the company store. But even if they're not getting cheated, even if you're the white worker, right, and you understand numbers and things like that, you're still having to pay more for the stuff than you actually get. Right. Because there's no competition in terms of other stores nor the businesses to drag down the price at all. Well, that's that's part of it. But the main thing is that it's called debt peonage because what happens is that you can't pay for everything that you're getting. So you get it and what you end up going into debt. Right. And as long as you're in debt, you can't move. Okay, as long as you're in debt to the company, you can't move. So that essentially is a is a system of bondage. Right. They call it debt peonage. Right. It's not slavery, but it's close. Right. Because you're tied to the employer. Right. Okay. Good. Good point. Any other questions, comments? Oh, wait, so, Professor. So a thief like happens if someone is in debt. That's when that's when they would start working for the Lord. No, no, no, that's a completely different system. All right. Let me let me go back. And the thief is owned by the Lord and the people who live on it need to pay taxes to the Lord, because it's sort of like they're renting out the property while working on it. Essentially, it's actually owned by the king and the Lord has rights to the labor. Right. But but the we see if I can write this better. Is that better. Okay, but this is this is all medieval rights in medieval Europe. Okay. What I was just talking about the debt peonage, it happened during the Industrial Revolution. Now they use credit cards, right, they get you they get you in debt to the credit card company and you never are able to get out. Right. Anyway, it's a different story. Alright, so, so now there's another part of this technology revolution. That is a manufacturing revolution. Right. And what that means is the implementation of the factory system. And the way that that works is that the Lord actually buys or some, let's say, what happens is that when you're in the cottage industry. One person uses one loom to create one sweater at a time. But with the application of the steam engine. You can actually have a steam engine. That's operated by one person that's making many things at once, you can have 10 looms hooked up to the steam engine, making 10 sweaters at a time by a machine that's operated by one person. Right. And because that machine is a machine, it can run 24 hours a day. Right. So what that means is, there's a revolution in manufacturing, meaning that you can make lots of stuff. Right. And so if we go from the cottage industry to the factory system in the factory system. We have, we are able to make a large quantity, large quantity. Of medium quality goods, it's not made for you, but it's close enough. Right. Medium quality goods. And it's at a low price. Okay, because you don't need to pay all that labor to get this thing, this stuff manufactured. You follow I'm saying, so we go from the cottage industry, we make a small quantity of high quality goods at a reasonable price, the factory system where we're making huge amounts of medium quality goods at a low price. Okay. So, so that's going to what that does is it makes it possible for people to create enormous amounts of wealth without very much land. Right. So in the fiefdom, all the land actually was the wealth. Right. And because that's all the wealth that there was, then the amount of wealth was limited. Okay. But in the manufacturing system, you don't need very much land to create enormous amounts of wealth. So essentially, what that means is that the amount of wealth that is available is unlimited. You guys get what I'm saying. That's the, that's the theory anyway. All right. So, so we go from a situation where there's a limited amount of land to an unlimited amount of wealth that the wealth is no longer in land. It's in capital. Right. And that's where we see the birth of capitalism. You guys have heard of capitalism, right. Okay, capitalism basically is the idea that that you can that the amount of wealth is only limited by the, the ability of the individual to create it. Right. And so what you need to do then is just allow the individual to create as much wealth as he can. And that individual will create wealth for themselves and for everybody else. That's the capitalist ideal. Right. And it arises out of the industrial system. Right. Okay. But let's think about this for a minute. First off, we're going to buy a steam loom. Who's going to buy it? So with money. And who would that be in this scenario? Would it be the Vassal? It would be the Lord. Lord. We don't have Lords anymore. Remember what happened was that the Lords were bought out by the by the merchants from America, the plantation owners, right. So, so basically, then these people that have made a lot of money from America, are you guys following me here? Yeah, people that made a lot of money from America are now investing it in factories. Right. So they use the money that they made in America to invest in a factory. Okay, now. So that means that the person who who actually owns the means of production. Now, some of you guys might be noticing that I'm using terms that are associated with Marx. Right. But I want you to know right up front, I'm not a communist. And although I will say that Marx was if you know what Marx actually said, he was right about a lot of things. And one of them was this development of industry in Europe. Okay. He wasn't right about how it all gets resolved. That's a different story. And we'll talk more about that later in the course. But for now, I want to say that what ends up happening is that because of the, because of the And although I will say that Marx was if you know what Marx actually said, he was right about a lot of things. And one of them was this development of industry in Europe. Okay. He wasn't right about how it all gets resolved. That's a different story. And we'll talk more about that later in the course. But for now, we want to say that what ends up happening is that because of the introduction of the factory system, we create a new class of people who own the means of production. Right. And we're going to call this class of people the bourgeoisie. And the reason why we call them the bourgeoisie is because the French word for village is bourge. Right. It's like in in English, it's Berg. So like Pittsburgh, right, but in in French, it's bours, and these merchants originally were the people in the towns in Europe who were able to invest in America, you guys get what I'm saying. So so that's why we call them the bourgeoisie right the bourgeoisie. I'm trying to do you see it on the screen there. And I are b o u r u g o i s i e e. It's like French right. If I were a lawyer or a doctor, I am a doctor. I don't want to call you the p experiments and that was the мыйе experienced in my life that is my ecosphere and the way we think posed the question have the anointing given S I E E. It's like French, right? A lawyer or a doctor. I am a doctor, but not that kind of doctor. Oh, you're talking about the way I write. I'm sorry. Well, it's actually not as bad if we're actually in a classroom, but I have a hard time with these screens. But anyway, the bourgeoisie owns the means of production. And because of that, they get the surplus. Surplus. Now remember, we said that the person working in the cottage, the peasant working in the cottage owned the loom. And because they own the loom, they got the surplus, right? But here we have a situation where the ownership of the means of production and the labor is separated. Okay. So the ownership of the means of production is in the hands of the manufacturers, right? Okay. And so we see the bourgeoisie owns the means of production. So therefore he gets the surplus. Now, the thing about the factory is that you need workers, right? Where are you going to get these workers? Well, the thing is, remember we talked about earlier, we talked about the agricultural revolution, where the population of Europe started to grow, right? And so we have, we go from a situation where everybody is needed to create enough for everybody to live to a situation where there, you need fewer people to create enough for more people to live. And that means some of these people don't have anything to do. Right. And Dickens, if you guys are familiar with the Christmas Carol, Dickens will call them the surplus population. What is the surplus population? It's the people that don't have anything to do, right? So if you, I'm sorry, the unemployed. Well, yeah, they're unemployed. They don't have anything to do. Right. Okay. There's no work for them. And so what happens is they can't stay on the land. Where are they going to go? Well, think about now, if you have a factory, are you going to put it in the village or out in the middle of the countryside, or where are you going to put it? The village. You're going to not in the village, but in the city, right? Cause that's where all the people live. Okay. Cause that's where the labor is. Right. So you put the factory in the city. We call this city Manchester or Dusseldorf or Springfield, Missouri, Mississippi, sorry, Massachusetts. There are different places. The point here is that the people that have to leave the land end up going to the city, right? Some of them go to the city in Europe, and some of them go to the cities in America, right? So it'll be, uh, people coming to America from Europe. These people that are essentially surplus population looking for work in American centers like Springfield, Massachusetts, or Detroit, or, uh, uh, maybe New York, Boston, whatever. And in also Mexico city, Rio de Janeiro, uh, all through the Americas, people coming to America to work and they end up working in factories, either American factories or European factories. But when these people go from the farm to live in the city, what do they bring with them in terms of being able to trade, trade for, uh, for a living? They trade labor for a living. Exactly. They have labor, right? They have labor. Okay. And, and so the proletariat then that's what we're going to call them proletariat, right? They own only their labor and they get a subsistence wage. And when I say subsistence, I mean just enough. So if it takes a nickel to live, you get a nickel a day, right? And if you don't work, you don't get the nickel. And if you don't get the nickel, you don't eat. You fall in Sam, right? There's nothing left over. You can't, you can't make enough to, to work your way out of poverty, to go to college and, and to become, you know, middle-class, right? Uh, look at what happened to Los Mineros. Los Mineros could never work their way out of the mines, right? They were tied to the mines by debt, pinage and by the fact that they didn't make enough money to put any away. You, you follow what I'm saying here? Okay. So, so then what we have then is to, uh, to, we've gone from a situation where you have the Lord of the Manor and the peasants and when we can, in terms of manufacturing, the peasants own the means of production and because they own the means of production, they are able to get their own surplus, which they used to pay rent, right? But then we go to a situation where instead of that, we have a division of labor and manufacturing where the bourgeoisie own means of production and therefore gets the surplus and the proletariat owns only their labor. And in return for that labor, they get a subsistence wage. Why do they only get a subsistence wage? Cause there's plenty of them, right? If you don't get one, you can get the other one, right? Um, if one guy gets sick and dies or can't work anymore, you can find somebody else. There's plenty of them, right? You see what I'm saying? It keeps the wages low. Okay. Questions, comments about any of this? Wouldn't people still want, I mean, the quality goods for a reasonable price if they could? Well, you know, your standards change, right? Nowadays, most of us, I don't, most of us don't get our clothes made for us, right? Instead we go to Target or whatever and buy our clothes. And when we go, there's, there's small, medium, large and extra large, right? And you're going to fit in one of those, right? But you might be a small extra large. And that means when you buy your extra large shirt, it's going to be big on you. Right. But it's okay. I mean, that's, that's just the way it is. Right. So if it doesn't fit exactly perfectly, we're fine with it. Does that make sense? And I get it a lot cheaper instead of having to pay for it. Say instead of having to pay $75 for the shirt, I can get it for 15. Right. And so I don't mind it being a little bit off in terms of size. Does that make sense? Yeah. But wouldn't the wealthier people like the lords or any of that want the more fitted attire? And isn't there room for them to capitalize on that? Well, there's not that many. I mean, if you think about it, there's people like that today. You can find somebody, if you are rich enough, you can find somebody to make, I mean, look at what happened. I think it was like last week when they had, was it the Grammys or whatever it was? Where the people were paying $10,000 to get a dress made, right? Something like that. Yeah. Okay. So that's still, that's still there, but that's a very tiny market. Right. The 1%. Yeah, essentially. Yeah. Okay. All right. Hey, professor. Yeah. So the Burj Joyce is the owners of the mean means of production and then the, the proletariat are the laborers. Okay. Was he, oh, sorry. Right. I mean, you guys are all calling everybody else bourgeois these days, right? Bougie. Yeah. Just call them the bougie. The bougie. Okay. Yeah. So the bougie owned the means of production and because of that, they get to surplus and the proletariat own only their labor. And so in return for that labor, they get a subsistence wage. Right. Okay. Really what we see here is the creation of a wage laboring class. Before this, there wasn't a wage laboring class. Okay. Now it's, it's a wage. It's a new class, right? That's where we shifted from the feudal system to the manufacturing system. Rather than having lords and peasants, we have bourgeoisie and proletarians, different kind of different, different roles or functions, I guess you could say. Questions, comments. Okay. Now I'm pretty much done with this thing, I think. So I'm going to go ahead and go back to the slides. How do I end this thing? There. I just ended it all. Okay. Get rid of this. And so this is what we just all, we talked, this is what we talked about. This and then this, right. And so a couple of things I just want to kind of fill in from that little demonstration I just showed you one having to do with the agricultural revolution. We already talked about rural displacement. What does that mean? Can you guys hear me? Yes. Yeah. I think. Yes. Okay. Yeah. And I, I, for some reason, I think I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to answer that question. Okay. Yeah. And I, I, for some reason, the sound system's all messed up, but I'll, I'll work on it. But anyway, point here is the, we talked about rural displacement. That means that there's more people on the land that can actually work it. And so they have to go someplace else. And where do they go? They go to the cities. And so that's why we see huge cities arising out of industrialization. Right. So, um, immigration and immigration, which we just talked about was people moving, uh, from the land to the cities and then, uh, so often to America. Right. So all of that is a result of the agricultural revolution. There's going to be political changes as well. And this political change has to do with the golden rule. Does anybody know what the golden rule is? I'm not talking about Jesus golden rule. I'm talking about the golden rule of capitalism. Make money. Society, right? The golden rule is whoever has the gold makes the rules. Right. So if we go back to the feudal system, the King had the gold and he made the rules. Right. But with the introduction of manufacturing, what that means is that more people can own wealth, right? So instead of just being the King and a few Lords, right now, people from the cities are going out, making, making lots of money. Some of these people made more money than any King ever had. Right. Uh, and, and because they have access to wealth, that also gives them political power, right? So, so we think about, uh, for example, the American founder, the American founder of the United States. Uh, for example, the American founders, they were not Lords, but they were wealthy comparatively for their time. Right. And when they created the United States, they called it a democracy. But what do we think of as a democracy? We say a democracy is one person, one vote. Right. But in that, in that case, it wasn't one person, one vote. It was one landowning person, one vote. Right. Or going even further, one white male landowning person who could vote. Right. So I don't know if I told you guys this, but in the first election, George Washington, uh, 17,000 people voted for him out of 25 million people that lived in the United States. You guys get what I'm saying? So it was very, very small group of people who actually were able to participate, but it was bigger than it was before. More people could vote. Right. And so, so we can see that industrialization eventually leads to, uh, liberalism or democratization. Right. Because the more people with wealth, the more people have a stake in society. Right. And so one of the things, one of the phenomena that will come out of the industrial revolution is the middle class. If you look at Europe or anywhere in the world before the industrial revolution, there was no middle class. It was like a tiny group of very wealthy people and an enormous group of four people and nothing in between, right. Big gap, but nothing in between. All right. And what we see happening is first off a managerial class and then a professional class. And then later with the, uh, with the rise of, uh, labor unions, a working class who's able to work their way into the middle class, right. And because they work their way into the middle class, they're able to control large amounts of wealth, not individually, but as a group. And so the middle class actually for a time in America was the ruling class. Right. That was not for a long time, but it was. And, and, uh, that was because of the democratization that came out of the, um, industrial revolution. You guys follow me here? Questions, comments. Okay. One last thing, um, imperialism, we talked about imperialism and one of the things that you'll, uh, that we have to note is that the rise of imperialism is motivated by industrialization. And what I mean by that is, for example, if we look at England, I told you about England before the British empire was built on textiles, cotton textiles, right? The problem is that, uh, in England, they don't grow cotton. Okay. So if you're going to make cotton textiles, you've got to get cotton somewhere. And at first they got it from the American colonies, but after the civil war or during the civil war, they found that that, uh, source was not reliable. So they went elsewhere and they got it from Egypt and eventually from India. Right. Okay. So, so now they're, what's happening is that, uh, England is importing cotton from India and we would think, okay, well, that's, that sounds okay. I mean, if we're going to have a textile factory, then I'll find somebody that has, that has cotton and I'll say, okay, you give me your cotton and I'll give you something in return, some money or something like that, right. But because Europeans were advanced technologically over the rest of the world, the English were able to go to India and say, look, you guys have cotton and we have guns, so if you give us your cotton, we won't kill you. Right. And that's essentially what imperialism is. Imperialism is that the people of England are able to control the resources of India through military power. Right. You guys get what I'm saying? All right. So, so, uh, so, so then imperialism and so imperialism essentially is a quest for resources and markets. England needed resources to make all these cotton textiles and once they'd made all the cotton textiles, they had to have someplace to sell them. Right. So they, they imported the cotton from India and then they sold the textiles back to India, right. And India was there only to create wealth for the mother country. Right. You guys follow I'm saying, okay, Americans are going to do this as well, but Americans are going to do it in a slightly different way, because instead of ruling other countries, United States will, um, will, will find other ways to control the economy of other countries. Right. And we'll talk more about that. I have a lecture in like two, two weeks, I think on industrialization. Right. So at any rate, the United States is, will be an imperial power, but it won't be like the European imperial powers or like Japan, right. Uh, because, uh, because the United States doesn't need to go outside of the United States or outside of the North American continent to find resources and markets until much later, right. America has access to the West, which gives them access to all the materials that they need and the population is growing, so they have plenty of markets. Right. So they don't really need to look overseas for an empire because we have an empire right here now on our own continent, you guys follow what I'm saying, questions, comments. All right. Okay. But now let's, that's the kind of economic aspect of imperialism, but there's another aspect of it as well, because what I'm doing is I'm going to your country, say I'm going to your house and I'm stealing your stuff, right. And I have to somehow justify that. Okay. I have to be able to justify the fact that I walked into your living room and stole your couch. Okay. And the way I'm going to do that is I'm going to say, well, I could say it one way or the other, I could say, okay, you know, you weren't using the couch right anyway, you were like drooling on it and stuff like that. So, so I'm going to take better care of the couch than you did. Right. So, so therefore I deserve the couch. Okay. You guys get what I'm saying? Or I could say, well, you guys can keep the couch, but I need to show you how to use the couch correctly, right. And that's going to be the Western way of doing it. The Western way we're going to kind of summarize it in a, in a phrase. Uh, that's the name of a poem by Rudyard Kipling called the white man's burden. Right. The white man's burden. And the idea behind that is that, is that the, the white Europeans are at the pinnacle of civilization. Why? Because they're white Europeans. Right. And everybody in the world that's not white is somehow not as advanced as the Europeans. Professor, my last professor described it as a, like European exceptionalism. Yeah. They just view everything to do as like just the pinnacle and they try to like essentially save everyone else. Well, that's the, that's the, that's the ideal. That's also the ideal between behind American mission and the ideal, the idea behind manifest destiny. Yeah. Right. The idea that the American way is the best way and that you better do it this way. And we're going to show you how to do it. Right. Okay. But now let's, let's, let me go on a little bit further here. Right. So it has, it's, it's kind of like, we can think of all of the civilizations of the world as children in a family. Right. And, and that, you know, when, when you say you're in a family, I don't know if you guys have brothers and sisters, right? But say if you're the older brother, right. And you have a younger brother, then you feel responsibility to help that younger brother to learn the ways of life. Right. Okay. And that's the way the Europeans will think about themselves. They'll say, okay, well, we have reached this pinnacle of civilization. Our mission is to help you guys along. The British called it the civilizing mission, right. To civilize people, which is ironic if you think about it, because the people of India were civilized centuries before the Europeans, right. The people of India were, were already had a thriving civilization while the people of the British Isles were running around in the woods naked and painting themselves blue, right. Follow what I'm saying. All right. So, so it's an ironic thing and it's really not, it's not valid. It's not valid to say that, that there is some, some pinnacle of civilization that can be reached and that we've, we're there and everybody else should be there with us. Right. But that's the driving motivation. Right. So that will drive European, some European imperialism, also American imperialism. Americans go to places and they say, we're here to bring democracy. Why is the United States in Iraq? Because we brought democracy, right. Why did the United States bomb Libya? Because of democracy, right. You listen to any of the presidents, it could be George Bush. It could be American. It could be Barack Obama, but they both justify American military force by saying that we support democracy. Well, does America really support democracy? Yes, it does. Right. But America is selective about where it enforces it because they enforce it in Libya and Iraq where there's oil, but they don't bother to enforce it in Rwanda. Right. There's a huge humanitarian crisis in Rwanda. The United States doesn't care a bit about that. You follow what I'm saying? So why do they care about Iraq, but not Rwanda? You follow what I'm saying? That makes sense to you guys. Okay. So we'll just leave it at that and I'll get back and we'll talk more about that later. But the main thing is here is to make that link between, let me just say one, one last thing, and then I'm going to let you guys go. Right. Modernization is the, is the, uh, the dilemma of the 19th century. Okay. Because all the countries in the world can be divided between those that are modernized and those that are not. Okay. And the modernized countries like, uh, Britain and France and, and Germany and the United States and Japan eventually are going to be modernized, meaning that they, uh, let me just say it this way. Modernization, you should write this one down. Modernization means to look like the West. Okay. Well, how does the West look? What does the West look like? You know, it's got a swerve cactus and, you know, tumbleweeds and stuff. No, that's not it. It's got, um, it's got, uh, liberalism or Liberty guys. Remember you talked about Liberty the other day with the exclamation point, right. And it's also got industrialization. So to be a modernized country, you have to have liberalism and industrialization. Right. And you'll see all of the industrial countries, uh, of the 19th century were both of those things, right. Other countries that are not modernized end up being essentially prey to the modernized countries, right. So, so the, the, the dilemma is modernize or be colonized. Right. If you cannot modernize, you will become colonized. And where we can see this really starkly is in, uh, China. China at the beginning of the 19th century was the most powerful, uh, country on earth. The most powerful, the most prosperous, uh, the most, um, advanced country on earth. Right. But because they believe that they were, had already achieved the pinnacle of civilization, they ignored the threat of the West. They said they, they thought of the West as a bunch of barbarians and they didn't make any effort to modernize. And in fact, they were against modernization. They said, why should we modernize? We're already, we're already the best. Right. And result was that by the beginning of the 20th century, they're so weak that they're what they call carved up like a melon, right. That, that you're, uh, China became so weak that European powers essentially carved it up in the spheres of influence. And the Americans were in on that as well. Right. Okay. So, so that was, that was China's lesson. Japan noticed that lesson. Japan noticed that, uh, China didn't modernize and became colonized. And their response was to deliberately modernize. So they went through this, this, uh, very painful modernization period called the Meiji revolution. Right. And the outcome of it was that they became a modernized country. But ironically, when they became a modernized country, they also became an imperial power. They also became a colonizer. Why? Because they needed resources and markets. Right. Okay. So, so the, the, the dilemma that we're looking at then in a 19th century is modernize or be colonized. China didn't modernize and they were colonized. Japan did modernize and they weren't colonized, but they became colonizers. Right. You guys follow I'm saying? All right. So that's kind of the, the economic, uh, formula, I guess you could say for the 19th century, for imperialism. And it's all driven by industry, right. By the industrial revolution. All right. Questions, comments. So now do you think that it was useful to watch that video before the lecture? Yes. How did that help you? Um, well, it was good to see like, uh, well, first of all, the video was very like, uh, local, especially personalized because it's focused on that one, that one company, the one mining group, it wasn't like a whole like overlook of America and like industrialization. It was very personal. So you got to see like on a personal level, like the effect of industrialization and like workers' rights and that sort of thing. Uh-huh. So I thought that was really cool. All right. And so what that does, hopefully is it makes what we talked about today. What we talked about today. If I talked about what I did today without talking, without seeing the video, it would be harder to make it seem like real life. You think? And this really brings it all to life for you to see, you can see how it really works in people's lives. And, uh, that all these things that we're talking about in history actually have a real life effect on people, right. Questions, comments. Okay. So, um, we have a little bit of time left. If you guys want to get in your groups or, or whatever, um, it's up to you guys. And I'll, like I said, I'll be, uh, in office hours at one, the link is in the syllabus and live long and prosper. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you, professor. Thank you, professor. Thank you. Nice day. You too have a, guys have a good weekend or not weekend, Wednesday. Come back on Wednesday. Hey, professor. I have a question. Okay. Um, wait, so what were you saying? The groups were for like, so in the future we have, um, are we going to have to do a group projects? Yeah, there will be a group project that's going to come along later. Okay. Uh, but I haven't, I haven't really finalized that yet. Okay. Yeah. But for now, just use it as, uh, hopefully that'll be a resource for you guys. Okay. So like the groups you put us in, we could just, uh, or like we should just contact each other in the group and then we could just like help each other out. Like a little small studies group. Okay. For sure. Yeah. It's kind of like a study group. Uh, the real reason for it. I mean, some of you guys already have a support group, but others are going to be more shy about it. Right. So, uh, hopefully this will make it easier for them to be able to reach out. Okay. For sure. And, um, sorry, go ahead. Sorry, Morris. No, go for it. Um, I mean, like I've kind of noticed not to like point anyone out, but mainly like the five people that are still on here, Jamie Cooper, the main people that are talking like, what if we feel like we're just not in a group that is helpful or productive, you know what I mean? Is that something that we can reach out to you about? Yeah, you can. Absolutely. The other thing is, um, when the groups that I assigned you to, um, when we come to do the actual group project, if, if people are not willing to participate, you will have a way of letting me know that, and that will affect their grade. So the grade that you get on the group project will be an individual grade, not a group grade. It's not even, I mean, the group project worries me if they're not going to put in their effort, but it's more so questions, help that kind of stuff that if I want to reach out to someone like Cooper helped me today during class through chat. Yeah, that's fine. I'm not, I'm not forcing anything on you guys that you can do whatever you need to do. I just is trying, I'm trying to make an opportunity for you guys. Oh no, I understand that. And I really appreciate it. I just, I want to be in a group that I feel is going to want to excel in the class as much as I do. So, um, yeah. So I assigned the group, uh, the way I did for a reason, right. Uh, and I'll tell you the reason, but I won't tell you until after we're done with the projects. Christina, have you seen who's in your group already? Uh, I kind of sort of saw it. Cause I, I have it is it's you, me and Cooper and then a guy named Connor and a guy named, um, Mikkel. Oh, okay. So it kind of cut me off because my zoom, the people were in it. So cool. That makes me happy. Yeah. Um, professor Cox, yeah. Chris, uh, Christina, since we're already here, do you want to, um, uh, exchange info? Like what's the best way to email you? Or is it you since we're in the group? Okay. Uh, email text message. Let me, let me show you something here. Uh, where do we find the groups again? I'm going to go back to the share, right? Uh, if you go to, there's a, there's a thing here called pronto, right. Which is a messaging system that you guys, you guys can use that. There's also, if you go to your group, which group are you guys in? I I'm in group three. Mine says three. Yeah. I can't see who's in it though. We'll go to group three. Uh, Cooper, I think you're in my group with Christina group three. We've got Mikkel, Christina, Cooper, Connor, Morris, right? Okay. But now look over here. There's a, a homepage for the group. Right. And on that homepage, you can actually put announcements, announcements to each other. Do you see what I'm saying? And I'm pretty sure that if you put an announcement there, it will be announced to the group and the group will be able to respond to it. Okay. Um, so I'll go up and put my email address in the same, same. Uh, I'll do that if anyone wants to contact me. I bet you, you know what, if I, if I can make a suggestion, you might want to do that in a more private setting. Okay. All right. Because you know what I'm saying? Because if you don't want to, you know, like, uh, advertise your email address. So everyone else can see it. Right. You only, I mean, unless you want everybody to see it, but I mean, no, thank you. There's so many, there's so many bad things that can happen. Uh, you're better off being more, um, more, uh, I guess conservative about, you know, sharing your personal information. Does that make sense? How about I just send it to you guys right now on a private chat? You can do that. I'll hang out here for a second. If you want to do that. Uh, yeah, sure. Yeah. Oh, okay. Uh, professor, wait, so next, uh, or this upcoming Wednesday, uh, according to the syllabus, we just have to have read keen chapter 15, um, by Wednesday before the class meeting. Yes. We're going to talk about, uh, the West. This is a different West, the American West. Right. Yeah, for sure. That and the, what you gave us, correct? The piece of paper, the kind of short story. The, you're talking about tossing tea and stealing dishes. Yes. That's next Monday, right? That's that's due next week. And, uh, yeah, it's not Monday because Monday's the holiday, right? Uh, it's probably Wednesday. Okay. The 17th. Yeah. So what Wednesday is just reading, right? Yeah, we're gonna, we're going to, uh, for Wednesday, it'll be a lecture. Um, but, uh, the only thing you're responsible for is the reading. Which book are we supposed to be reading? Is it visions of America or? Well, your, your textbook is visions of America. Uh-huh. And then the book that we're going to start discussing is the book that we're going to start discussing next Wednesday is the soul of America. Okay. It's a different book, right? But it all has to do with America because, you know, this is American history, right? Okay. Are you guys all set? Oh yeah. I'm just, I'm just getting down their information before. Yeah. Just writing it down real quick. Well, I'm on the group. So I'm gonna leave. See you, professor. Bye. Have a good one. Have a good week. Have a good week. See you on Wednesday. So how was your weekend, professor? Oh, um, you know what? I spent the last six months retired. So life is a weekend for me actually. Nice. Aren't you lucky? Yeah. I, I kind of, it's hard to get up and actually do any work, but, um, but I enjoy doing this. So something I can deal with. You're one of the best U S history professors I've had so far. Yeah, I agree. You, you're very thorough. Well, we just started, so you don't know. It might all go downhill. Are we going to get to, God, why am I having a brain fire? Um, stock market. We'll do a little bit about the stock market on when we talk about the depression. Okay. So, um, you should put on one of those fake tuxedo shirts. Oh, yeah. Then my high school teacher did it like that. And we got to like bid and kind of, if we failed, we failed and bombed or we succeed. It was pretty cool. I think a lot of people had that experience. Um, this last week with, uh, GameStop. Yeah. In real life. Yeah. Well, so I don't pay attention to any of that. Yeah. Well, you're probably better off that way. Oh, yeah. I don't, I don't go on social media at all. So I used to, I used to, but it's, uh, I watched all that promotion go down with GameStop and AIMC and everything, but I didn't want to press.