 This I know. In March of 1945, Mr. Rickey told me in confidence that only the board of directors of the ball club knew and only his family knew, and now I was going to know, that he was going to bring a black player to the White Dodgers. And Mr. Rickey said that going back to when he was a baseball coach at Ohio Wesleyan University, he took the team down to play a series at South Bend, Indiana with Notre Dame. And he said, my best player was my catcher, and he was black. But, said Mr. Rickey, when we were registering the squad in the hotel, when the black player stepped up to sign the register, the clerk jerked the register back and said, we don't register niggers in this hotel. And Rickey said, I remonstrated and said, this is a baseball team from Ohio Wesleyan, we're the guests of Notre Dame University. He said, I don't care who you are, we don't register niggers in this hotel. Well, Mr. Rickey said, there are two beds in my room, aren't they? And he says, can't he use one bed and not register? And the clerk grudgingly allowed that to happen. And Mr. Rickey took the key, handed it to the black player and said, you go up to the room and wait for me. As soon as I get the rest of the team settled, I'll be up. Mr. Rickey said, when I opened the door, I heard this fine young man was sitting on the edge of a chair and he was crying and he was pulling at his hands. And he said, Mr. Rickey, it's my skin. If I could just tear it off, I'd be like everyone else. And Mr. Rickey told me this day in March of 1945, he said, all these years I have heard that boy crying. And now he said, I'm going to do something about it. This is a particularly good year to campaign against the evils of bigotry, prejudice and race hatred. Because we have witnessed the defeat of enemies who tried to found a mastery of the world upon such cruel and fallacious policy. New York Times. Judge Landis' replacement as commissioner was a jovial, gregarious senator from Kentucky, Albert Benjamin Happy-Chamber, who said he took the job because the $50,000 salary was so much more than the $10,000 he'd been making as United States Senator. Few thought he would be an improvement. But in April 1945, two black sports writers, Wendell Smith and Rick Roberts, who had campaigned tirelessly for integration since before the war, called upon the new commissioner to find out where he stood. If a black boy can make it on Okinawa and Guadalcanal, Chandler told his visitors, hell, he can make it in baseball. Still, a secret vote revealed that 15 out of 16 club owners opposed integration. The lone exception was Branch Rickey, who had left St. Louis in 1942 to become president and general manager for the Brooklyn Dodgers. It was in a narrow, tight and unenlightened world. There was Branch Rickey who said, I'm going to do this. I'm going to integrate baseball. I'm no longer going to allow a part of the population to be excluded. Now, Rickey's detractors say he would do anything to win, and it wasn't because he had such a big heart or that he was such a great believer in civil rights. He simply wanted to win. Well, there were a lot of men in baseball who wanted to win, and they wouldn't go this far. This is far? I don't think so at all. Branch Rickey was equally celebrated for his shrewdness and for the sermons he loved to deliver for the sports pages. Red Smith said he was a man of many facets, all turned on. Reporters called his office the cave of the winds and called him the deacon and the Mahatma, because he reminded them of a combination of God, your father and a Tammany Hall leader. Branch Rickey is a con man. Britain, fascinating erudite, but still a con man. I've been listening to him for 25 years. I've always been impressed, seldom enlightened. The trick of the con man is to weave a spell. In this, Branch Rickey stands alone. Not since the days of William Jennings Bryan and Billy Sunday has any man fallen so deeply in love with the melodic quality of his own voice. Joe Williams, New York World Telegram. Rickey had already transformed the game once by devising the farm system during his quarter of a century as president of the St. Louis Cardinals. He was already rich and in his 60s, but he loved the challenge of building a new dynasty and he loved Brooklyn, its fierce local loyalties, its distinctive neighborhoods and devotion to the Dodgers. Now he was plotting a second, still more sweeping, revolution. Rickey believed with equal fervor in fair play and big profits. He was convinced integration would be good for America for billions of dollars. Integration would be good for America for baseball and for his balance sheet. Branch Rickey had seen us play before 50,000 people in Comiskey Park. You understand? We had played in Yankee Stadium, you know, with 30,000, 40,000 people and we played at the Dodger, every field. So he knew here's a new source of revenue. The greatest untapped reservoir of raw material in the history of the game is the black race, Rickey confided. The Negroes will make us winners for years to come. His broadcaster, Red Barber, was stunned and contemplated resigning. But Mr. Rickey told me that he was going to bring a black player to the Brooklyn Dodgers. I didn't doubt him. You didn't doubt Mr. Rickey. He said he was going to do it. He was going to do it. Well, I came home and talked to my wife, Lala, and I said, after all, you have to remember, I was born in Columbus, Mississippi. I grew up in Sanford, Florida. I went to a segregated university, University of Florida. This was something I never even dreamed of and it was a shock to me. I think it is only honest to say so. Meanwhile, Branch Rickey's scouts began to scour the Negro leagues for a likely player. A race man is a person who is proud of his race. He wants his race to advance. He wants his race to be recognized. That's the type of guy Jackie was. That's his whole thing. Recognition, treat me as I'm supposed to be treated. Give our people a fair shot at it. We make it fine and we don't make it. That's still fine. But give us an equal chance. That's what a race man is. Jack Roosevelt Robinson was born in 1919 in Cairo, Georgia, the grandson of a slave and the fifth child of a sharecropper who soon deserted his family. He was brought up by his mother, a domestic, in a white neighborhood in Pasadena, California, where white children pelted him with rocks until he and his elder brothers began to pelt them back. Jack, even in high school, was concerned about what was happening to his race. He had that early on. His mother, Mallie Robinson, was an extraordinary woman. She came up from Georgia with five children and no prospects. Just her determination to make it for her kids, she set the example and set the pace. She was a real pioneer. So a part of what she gave him was self-esteem. He wore white shirts to UCLA. He was ebony black. At a time when my generation really was not that proud to be black, not Jack, and what attracted me to him was he walked straight, he held his head up, and he was proud of not just his color, but his people. At Pasadena Junior College in UCLA, he excelled at every sport he tried, led his basketball league in scoring two years running, broke his own brother's national record at the broad jump, and was one of the country's best running backs in football. Watch him leading UCLA to a 16-6 victory over Oregon on October 28, 1931. Touchdown for Jackie Robinson. Baseball was relatively low on his list, but he was good enough at it so that when he left the Army in 1944, the Kansas City Monarchs offered him a job as shortstop at $400 a month. Jackie came to Kansas City Monarchs in 1945. We spring trained at Ian Houston, Texas, and after spring training we went to New Orleans, exhibition game there. Well, we had more people, seats in the bus. Well, we had more people, seats in the bus. Jackie looked, I'm a rookie. My seat is in the step of the bus. I'm going to earn mine just like everybody else. That's the type of guy that he was. Jackie came to the Monarchs and we had been going for 30 years going to this filling station in Oklahoma. And where we would buy the gas, we got two 50-gallon tanks on that thing. We'd buy the gas, but we couldn't use the restroom. Jackie wanted to use the restroom. Jackie said, I'm going to the restroom. I said, boy, you can't go to that restroom. Jackie said, take the hose out the tank. Take the hose out the tank. This guy going to sell 50-gallon, I mean 100-gallon of gas. He ain't going to sell 100-gallon of gas in another month. So he said, well, I'll tell you what, Jackie said, if we can't go to the restroom, we won't get any gas here. We'll get it someplace else. He said, well, you boys can go to the restroom, but don't stay long. So actually, he started something there. Now, every place we would go, we wanted to know, first, could we use the restroom? If we couldn't use the restroom, no gas. He hit 387 his first season, and Wendell Smith, still pressing for integration, arranged a tryout for Robinson and two other young Negro League players with the Boston Red Sox. Although Boston manager Joe Cronin was impressed by Robinson's skills, Boston passed up the opportunity to become the first major league team to integrate. Instead, it would be the last. By this time, Robinson had caught the attention of Branch Rickey. He sent his chief scout, Clyde Soukforth, to look Robinson over. Well, he called me and he said, I want you to see a game in Chicago Friday night. He said, pay in particular attention to a fellow named Robinson. Now he said, I want you to identify yourself. Tell him who sent you and what you want to see. His arm, paying particular attention to his arm. Soukforth was impressed and told Robinson Branch Rickey would like to see him. He came down and I talked to him at length. I mean, he was pouring the questions to me about why is Rickey interested in me? And the more you talk to the guy, the more you're impressed with the guy, the determination written all over him. Robinson did not know precisely what Rickey had in mind, but he agreed to accompany Soukforth back to Brooklyn. Well, I introduced Robinson and Mr. Rickey went right to work on him. He said, Jack, I've been looking for a great colored ballplayer for a great many years. I have some reason to believe you might be that man. Mr. Rickey, who had never laid eyes on Robinson, sent for him and had him in his office for three hours. Mr. Rickey was not only very intelligent, but very intelligent vocally. He never used profanity and his strongest expletive was Judas Priest. But that morning, Mr. Rickey took Robinson into every possible negative situation he would encounter. All the world of Jim Crowism, et cetera, and he took Robinson into what would happen on the playing field that he'd be thrown at his head, that he would be slid into and spiked, et cetera. He screamed in his face every expletive that Robinson would ever hear. And he said to Robinson, do you have the guts not to fight back? And he said, finally, the only way you can be the first man to do this, the first black man, is you'll have to promise me that for three years you will not answer back. You cannot win this by a retaliation. You can't echo a curse with a curse, a blow with a blow. So Robinson gave it a thought before he answered. And that impressed Rickey. If he'd said right off quick, oh, I can do that. Well, he gave it some thought and he said, Mr. Rickey, if you want to take this gamble, I'll promise you there'll be no incident. And that was just what Rickey wanted to hear. He picked Jack because he showed an assertive side of himself which he would need. He showed the kind of strength to go through things. He also was a deeply religious man, Mr. Rickey was, and he knew about Jack's religious convictions. So they were kind of alike in that sense. I think he saw the various aspects of the character that attracted him and made him feel that he could come through a scathing experience without being harmed, without giving in, giving up. There was very much a partnership between them and they had to agree on these things because they were in it together. Rickey needed Jack as much as Jack needed Rickey. They just had to do it together. They picked him because of who he was and what he was. Sure, the baseball skill was important, but there were other skilled players. Monty Irvin, everyone expected to be the first. But Robinson had a determination and an ability to, on the one hand, turn the other cheek, but on the other hand, that as he turned the cheek to let the person who was his antagonist know that it would come around again. The one thing that we weren't sure that Jack could hold his temper. Jack had a terrific temper. He knew how to fight and he would fight. If Jack could hold out that temper, he can do it. He knew he had the whole black race, so to speak, on his shoulders. So he's just a way, I can take it. I can handle it. I will take it for the rest of the country and the guys. And that's why he took all that mess and it killed him. It's gonna kill him. On Tuesday, October 23rd, 1945, Ricky's office made an announcement that it said would affect baseball from coast to coast. The Montreal Royals, the Dodgers' top farm club, had hired Jackie Robinson. If he did well for Montreal, he would move up to the Dodgers. I saw baseball after the Black Sox scandal. Everybody said, well, baseball, it kind of got off of baseball. See, and here come Babe Ruth, hitting the home run. That brought it back. See, then we went into another little recession in baseball. Here come the lights. That brought it back. See, now we go into the wall and all the good ball players gone. So that kind of brought it down a little. Here come Jackie Robinson. Through most of the 1946 season, the baseball world's attention was riveted on the Montreal Royals and Jackie Robinson. Branch Ricky hoped Robinson would have an easier time in Canada, where race was much less of an issue. But the Montreal Royals manager was Clay Hopper, a Mississippian. He begged Ricky not to make him the manager of an integrated team, asking, do you really think a nigger's a human being? Robinson later confessed that he'd been nervous as the devil, but he told reporters he was ready for any challenge he might meet from white fans or white players. I'm ready to take the chance. Maybe I'm doing something for my race. Roger's Hornsby, the great National League slugger, said an integrated team would never work. Bob Feller, who had often barnstormed with black teams, was sure Robinson would fall short. He was too muscle bound to hit well, he explained. If he were a white man, I doubt they would even consider him big league material. But in his very first game for Montreal at Jersey City on April 18th, Robinson went four for five, stole two bases, and scored twice by provoking the pitcher to balk. This would have been a big day for any man, the New York Times reported, but under the special circumstance, he was not the only one to be called up for the game. The New York Times reported, but under the special circumstances, it was a tremendous feat. On the road, Robinson endured without complaint, separate and unequal facilities, pretended not to hear the taunts of his opponents, nor to mind the initial coolness of his teammates. The pressure and the abuse were unrelenting. It came in all the forms that racism comes in. It came in the form of racial epithets, it came in the form of gestures, it came in the form of little incidents like putting the black cat on the field. I was sitting in a section where there was some rabid anti-Robinson people who were yelling at him, calling him names. It was really to try to throw him off. They wanted him to hear them. As a matter of fact, I felt it so keenly, they were at my back, and I could not turn around because I was under the same constraints Jack was under. But I kept hoping that my body was blocking some of the sound, you know, because I could see what their intent was. As the season progressed, he was wrapped by stomach pain on the brink of a nervous breakdown. But in the face of all the abuse, Robinson only played better. Robinson sparked the Royals with sharp hands and a sharp foot. Robinson sparked the Royals with sharp hitting and fielding, daring base running, leading them first to the league championship, and then to victory in the minor league world series. After the final game, jubilant Montreal fans chased Robinson for three blocks as he left the stadium. It was probably the only day in history a friend remembered that a black man ran from a white mob with love instead of lynching on its mind. Even Clay Hopper, the Montreal manager who had questioned Robinson's humanity before the season started, now called him a great ball player. And he urged Branch Rickey to move him up to the Dodgers for the 1947 season. But Rickey gave no indication of his intentions. February 1, 1947. I know the real reason Josh Gibson died. I don't need a doctor's report for confirmation either. He was murdered by Big League baseball. I know the reason why he died. I know the reason why he died. I know the reason why he died. I don't need a doctor's report for confirmation either. He was murdered by Big League baseball. Pittsburgh Courier. Josh Gibson, perhaps the greatest of all the Negro League stars, was just 35 in the winter of 1947, but old beyond his years. He had lost weight, was drinking too much, no longer able to play as he once had because of constant pain in his knees. And he had grown increasingly erratic, lapsing into long silences, hearing voices no one else could hear, threatening suicide, holding imaginary conversations in which he tried in vain to persuade Joe DiMaggio to recognize him. On January 20, he suffered a stroke and died. There was no money for a gravestone. You're in a neighborhood that you've never been in before. You understand that feeling that you would have? All right, here's Jackie. And to Jackie to play in the major leagues, that meant one white boy wasn't going to play. See? And so this is, I could understand the rebellion. I could understand the rebellion because we had played against these fellas, and they knew that we could play. And they knew if we were allowed to play, a lot of them wouldn't play. During spring training, 1947, Ricky staged a seven-game series between the Dodgers and the Royals in order to display Jackie Robinson's skills to the men with whom he hoped Robinson would soon be playing. The strategy backfired. Robinson's brilliant play, he batted 625 and stole seven bases, seemed only to end up in the top of the game. The strategy backfired. Robinson's brilliant play, he batted 625 and stole seven bases, seemed only to antagonize his future teammates. Nearly half of the Dodgers were Southern whites and three of their players, outfielder Dixie Walker, second baseman Eddie Stanky, and the third string catcher Bobby Bragan, all from Alabama. Drew up a petition saying they would rather be traded than play with a black teammate. Then went around gathering signatures. DeRosha heard about that petition and he called a meeting and he really laid down the law. He said in effect that, well you know what you can do with that petition. And also Mr. Ricky did say tomorrow, if some of you fellas don't want to play with him, Mr. Ricky would take care of it because he's coming. He can play ball and more than that there are more black players coming after him and you fellas had better shape up. One Southerner refused to sign. Shortstop Pee-wee Reese from Louisville, Kentucky. Pee-wee Reese was one of the first to give a public reaction. He was being mustered out of the armed forces and he got the word that Robinson was coming. And Robinson had been playing shortstop and some writer asked Pee-wee, I felt about it, and Pee-wee said, well if he can take my job he's entitled to it. The players revolt was stopped before it got started. Jackie Robinson was going to make them all rich, DeRosha assured the Dodgers. He had made the team and would be with them when they started the season at Ebbets Field. Happy, happy. We've been looking forward to this thing for years. We were, oh everybody was so happy now Jackie is going to the major leagues. We were all elated but it was the death knell for our baseball. But who cares? Who cares? History was made here Tuesday afternoon in Brooklyn's flag-bedecked Ebbets Field when smiling Jackie Robinson trotted out on the green swept diamond with the rest of his Dodger teammates. No less than 15 photographers surrounded Robinson before the game and clicked his picture from every position imaginable. Pittsburgh Courier. On April 15th 1947 at Ebbets Field in Flatbush in the borough of Brooklyn in New York City the Brooklyn Dodgers faced the Boston Braves. It was opening day and for the first time in modern major league history a black man Jack Roosevelt Robinson was starting the game at first base. There were 26,623 fans in the stands more than half of them black come to see Jackie Robinson. Although Robinson went hitless in three trips to the plate just the sight of him stirred the crowd. I remember the excitement and just the feeling of having gotten through it and a sense that Ebbets Field itself was small enough so that we kind of felt immediately that we could find our place in it at least I did. The black fans were so tense and so enthusiastic and so their expectations were so high and their aspirations were so high that they just reacted to everything. Every swing of the bat somehow they got something going with the black fans. And white fans I think were probably more in a frame of mind to wait and see. There was this overpowering feeling that people's hopes were riding on what Jack was doing as much as their interest as fans in the score. The Dodgers won that day five to three. You can almost divide American history in the 20th century before Robinson and after Robinson. America was defined by baseball this this was our national game so the drama of this moment of Robinson coming in is is is enormous because of the game being tied to the national character in some way the game being tied with America's sense of its mission and its destiny. It's a game that's been played for a long time and it's been played for a long time and it's been the national character in some way the game being tied with America's sense of its mission and its destiny. For me baseball's finest moment is the day Jackie Robinson set foot on a major league field for the first time in 1947. I'm most proud to be an American most proud to be a baseball fan. When baseball has led America rather than followed it it has done so several times but this is the most transforming incident. I can think of no man having a more difficult road ahead of him than Jackie Robinson did in 47 and no one walking that road more valiantly or more proficiently. I would say that Jackie Robinson is my great hero among baseball players and he's my great hero as an American. He is an individual who shaped the crowd. Elsewhere in Brooklyn that evening at 1574 50th street in Borough Park a Jewish family gathered for Seder the feast of Passover. Why is this night different from all other nights the youngest male asked in the centuries-old tradition? Before his father could reply he answered his own question because a black man is playing in the major leagues. Too late. It was a wonderful moment when it happened but when I think of it you know what it it brings pain too. It was a great triumph and Branch Rickey, Branch Rickey was a great great leader in this society but why why did it take all those years? Why should it have been such a big event? Why weren't we capable of better? How could you possibly say that they were less than we were? We didn't we put that behind us in the Civil War? Why wasn't the question settled? 12 days after Robinson's debut Babe Ruth Day was celebrated in ballparks all across the country. Ruth himself appeared in Yankee Stadium. He was very ill now with cancer of the throat. The termites have got me he told an old friend. Surgery had slowed the disease but damaged his larynx. Thank you very much ladies and gentlemen. You know how pain my voice sounds while it feels just as bad. You know this baseball team of ours comes up from the youth that meets the boys and after you're a boy and grow up you know how to play ball then you come to the boys you see representing themselves today in your national pastime. The only real game I think in the world baseball. The appeal of baseball was that it was fair that if you understood the rules all you had to do was work hard and reach the maximum level of your ability and you could succeed. This was the promise that anyone could be an American anyone could play baseball. It wasn't really true. Jackie Robinson made it true. The iron curtain which has prevented Negroes from participation in major league baseball has finally been lifted. Now the real challenge faces Negro America. The challenge of taking this tremendous victory in stride. The challenge to stop our booing over some untoward incident which might happen on the ball field. Remember that Jackie might be roughed up so. Remember today Negro America whose symbol is Jackie Robinson is on trial. Mr. Ricky opened the door and Jackie's foot is in it. It's very career. Make no mistake about it. Jackie could have been a Brazilian anything. If Jackie hadn't started drawing people at that park and been able to produce he'd have been gone. And that I think that's one reason he fought so hard because he knew if he failed then our people would fail and he was determined to make it. And he was the most exciting ball player that we had and the greatest gate attraction since Baybrook. The thing that made Robinson so excited was his base run. When Robinson was on base dashing off first base dashing off second dashing off third threatening to steal the next base upsetting the pitcher every eye in the ball pond was on Jackie Robinson. Robinson played brilliantly and drew just the kind of huge crowds the branch Ricky had hoped for. By July the Dodgers were in first place. Jackie's batty begins to swing. the grandma says she was too old too cold she listen in on the radio her feet gotference she grabbed her dress first makes you holla Jackie Robinson is a man she's on the baseball boogie when Jackie comes running home He ran up those base paths and just excited the crowd. I mean, he began to pull people on his side by his performance. And his performance also was his outlet. So it worked both ways, that he created fans immediately. I mean, the electricity was in the air in the stands on the field and in our hearts. Well, the thing about Jackie Robinson that was so thrilling to me was that every time he got on base, you just felt like everybody else was nervous. So you felt like he was controlling the whole tempo of the game. And you knew he was going to steal second at some point, or you knew he would pretend to steal second at some point, and that the pitcher was nervous and he wasn't making as good of a pitch. And somehow all eyes were riveted toward him so that when they were on the base path, you just somehow felt something was going to happen, some magic. It didn't always happen, but you felt it always could. So there was that sense of electricity. And I just thought he was the best there was. Shea pitching to Jackie Robinson in the first inning, walks the Brooklyn first baseman, and the Dodgers have a rally in the making with Pete Reesor coming to bat. And then Robinson promptly steals second base. What happened is Jackie took black baseball to the Major Leagues. See, at the time, baseball was a base-to-base thing. You hit the ball, you wait on first base, or somebody hit it again. See? But in our baseball, you got on base, if you walked, you stole second, you tried to steal their bunch, you over the third, and you actually scored runs without a hit. This was our baseball. I saw him once, he walked, face on balls, got to first base, and he walked down to first base, didn't try. Got to first base, just turned around with his foot on the base, didn't move. The pitcher looked over at him, looked over at him, Robinson didn't even move off the base. The pitcher started to throw, Robinson stole second. Got in the second base, now the pitcher's looking back like this, looking back, looking back. Robinson was taking a lead now, the pitcher kept looking back. He walked the batter. Men in first and second. Robinson still moving back and forth, back and forth. He walked the next batter. Now Robinson's in third base, base is loaded, and he took this tremendous lead. He just walked off the base. Ten, fifteen, twenty feet, and the pitcher was almost panicky. The third baseman came in, he threw over, Robinson got back. Robinson did the same thing. The pitcher looked over. Finally the manager came out, and he motioned to the third baseman, stand on the bag, hold Robinson on the base. I never saw that before, haven't seen it since, where third baseman held the runner on the base. And the pitcher kept looking over, threw to the next batter, walked him, walked in the run. And Robinson walked home and touched the plate, and walked back. He created the run all by himself. Mr. Rickey said that Robinson was the most competitive ball player he had seen since Ty Cobb. But the amazing thing about Robinson was not what he did on the field, but what he did to control himself for those first three years. It was absolutely terrible. In the coming days, as the Dodgers went around the league, there were threats to shoot Robinson from the stands. Warnings that his wife and infant son would be killed if he dared keep playing. Pitchers threw at his head. Base runners intentionally spiked him. Hotels refused to house him. Bench jockeys began shouting racial slurs during batting practice, and kept it up until the last out. Nigger, go back to the cotton fields. Hey, Snowflake, which one of the white boy's wives are you dating tonight? Hey, boy, how about a shine? It was well known that the owners did not want this experiment to work. They wanted Rickey to fail, they wanted Jack to fail, and so whatever they could do behind the scenes, they would do. There were also teams and individuals on teams who did not want it to work. When Philadelphia came to Evans Field, they leveled things up. When Philadelphia came to Evans Field, they leveled torrents of abuse, led by manager Ben Chapman on Robinson. It was disgraceful, it was terrible. And the Dodger players then became incensed. And Stanky, who had been one of the motivators about that petition down in spring training camp, Stanky then yelled to the Philadelphia dugout, Why don't you fellas pick on someone who can answer back? And Mr. Rickey felt that the Philadelphia players' abuse of Robinson was beneficial, because it united the white Dodgers for their teammate Robinson. Oh, Philadelphia was disgusting, I mean the way they rolled that fellow. And you know, the Philadelphia press got on Chapman, he was the ringleader. Now it looks like his job is in danger. He has to swallow his pride and ask Robinson if he will have his picture taken with him. And Robinson's mad enough to say, Yeah, I will. The first time the Dodgers showed up in Cincinnati, there was a very hostile crowd. There was a very hostile crowd. Cincinnati just across the Ohio River from Kentucky, and Peewee is from Louisville, the Southern, a little kernel. And there was a lot of booing going on and they sat near them. And there came a lull in the ball game and Peewee just walked over to where Robinson was standing on the infield and put his arm around his shoulder and talked to him for a moment and then went back, which said to the crowd, This is my friend. I would like to bet that no athlete have they ever tried to intimidate more than they did Jackie Robinson. He had tons and tons of guts. But boy, I want to tell you, when they start throwing at you, at your noggin, you get mad, but you better be careful about doing it. And he faced that probably as much as any player his first and second year in the big leagues. The most serious incident came in St. Louis against Branch Ricky's old team, the Cardinals. Enos country slaughter out at first by at least 10 feet, nonetheless jumped into the air and deliberately laid open Robinson's thigh with his spikes. Robinson's anger almost overcame him. But when his teammates threatened to retaliate, he talked them out of it. I never once heard Jack say out loud, I want to give up. I don't think I can take it anymore. He would get discouraged, he'd get frustrated, he'd get angry. But by the next morning, you know, he'd kind of sleep it off and next day was a new day. I think he felt that one, he could transcend this promulgation because he had a higher goal. I mean, he really, the goal was important to him. The mission was important to him. And he knew that he was holding himself in and constraining himself for a real purpose. The sporting news, which had opposed baseball's integration just a few years earlier, now named Robinson its very first Rookie of the Year. In a national poll, he was elected the second most popular man in America after Bing Crosby. Robinson led the league in stolen bases. And had a 297 batting average. More people came to Ebbets Field that summer than at any time in its history. And he had helped drive the Brooklyn Dodgers to the pennant. He's a G, Jackie Robinson, hit that ball, hit that ball, hit that ball. Brooklyn Dodgers to the pennant. In the G, Jackie Robinson, hit that ball, did he hit it? Yes! And that ain't all, he stole the hole. Yes, yes, Jackie's real calm. Jackie Robinson, hit that ball, did he hit it? Yes! And that ain't all, he stole the hole. No other ball player on this club, said Dixie Walker, who had once wanted to quit rather than play alongside a black man, has done more to put the Dodgers up in the race as Robinson has. He is everything Branch Ricky said he was. I have said that Robinson did more for me than I did for him. I had to change my outlook on racial equations because being raised in the South, when the black ball player came, I had to begin thinking differently. I had to understand with clear eyes that I should and must accept him equally as I did other players. So to me, it matured me. The kind of moral suasion that you hope will begin to take place, does begin to take place, because people start asking questions, why aren't there more? Where did you get them from? Where's the pool? What happened in the black leagues? All those things begin to be questions. And so the system got questioned and challenged as a result of this. The most important black person in American history is Martin Luther King. A close second, I would argue, is Jackie Robinson, who came before Martin Luther King and began the consciousness raising of whites and blacks that resulted in Martin Luther King's career. The heroism of Jackie Robinson, playing the game that requires such astonishing concentration, such equipoise, a combination of relaxation and concentration, to play it with his intensity under the pressures he felt on the field from racism, on the field from racism, from the stands, off the field, to be, the pressure to be, in the awful phrase of the day, a credit to his race, to do all that, all that he did under all that pressure, is not just one of the great achievements in the annals of sport, but one of the great achievements of the human drama anywhere, anytime. Black Football Negro baseball ain't dead yet, not by a long shot. It may not be as fat and sassy as it once was, or as robust as it became, but it is still active, ambulatrically. Black Football There was euphoria that another bastion would call him, but there was worry among the owners of the Negro League teams. They knew from other examples, not just in baseball, that as soon as integration came, the focus in the Negro community would shift from the Negro League teams to, oh, let's just see what Jackie does in the majors. And they knew it was just a matter of time before other Negro Leaguers, or just black ballplayers, played for other major league teams. That's exactly what happened, and the Negro League started their inevitable slide downward. Negro League attendance dwindled away. Black fans wanted to see Jackie Robinson play in the majors. In Chicago, thousands turned out in their Sunday best to watch their hero play. A train, the Jackie Robinson Special, ran all the way from Norfolk, Virginia to Cincinnati, stopping to pick up fans along the way. Overnight, the Dodgers had become black America's favorite team. Oh, I voted for the Brooklyn Dodgers, there's no question about that. The Dodgers were black America's team, period. That I am unequivocally sure about. There was a feeling of enormous pride in someone of my color finally doing something that had the nation's ear. Everyone was talking about Jackie Robinson, the first black athlete to play Major League Baseball. And daily, my father would get to newspapers to see exactly what Jackie was doing. And it was a great deal of pride. Thank you. Frankie Masters and his orchestra present, Takes Me Out to the Ball Game. In the fall of 1947, the Dodgers faced the Yankees in a hard-fought World Series, the first series in which an African American had ever played. Some of baseball's most famous stars attended the first game. Babe Ruth, Chris Speaker, even Ty Cobb. Third inning, Shea again walks Robinson. And the fleet-footed Dodger may have notions of trying to steal second again. Shea watches him dance off first and tries to pick him off. Look out, Robbie. He's safe. And now Shea accidentally drops the ball. Another attempt to throw to first and it's a ball. Humpire Bay Finnelli waves Robinson on to second. Robinson played well, but the most memorable moments involved two Italian Americans. The first was Dodger pinch-hitter, Cookie Lavagetto. Wait a minute. Stanky is being called back from the plate and Lavagetto goes up the hit. The Yankees are ahead two to one. Jean Frida, all the pinch runners at second, the tying run. It was game four, bottom of the ninth. The Yankee pitcher was one out away from throwing a no-hitter. Eight and two thirds innings, two out last of the night. The pitch to Lavagetto, swung on and missed. Fast ball, it was in there, strike one. Two men out last of the night. The pitch, swung on, there's a drive, hit out toward the right field corner. Henrik is going back. He can't get it. It's off the wall for a base hit. Here comes the tying run and here comes the winning run. Friends, they're killing Lavagetto, his own teammate. They are beating him to pieces. Devons, who was within one out, had a no-hit ball game. So when Lavagetto broke up as no-hitter, he scored the two runners and broke up the ball game. And I don't think there's ever been such a sound in Brooklyn as there was when that ball hit the right field fence. In the sixth inning of the sixth game, with the Dodgers leading eight to five, Joe DiMaggio came to bat with two men on. Al Johnfrido, nicknamed the Little Italian, was playing left field. And the crowd well knows that one swing of this bat this fellow's capable of making it a brand new game again. Joe leans in, here's the pitch, swung on, felt it. It's a long one, deep into left center, back for Johnfrido, back, back, back, back, back, back. He makes a one-handed catch against the bullpen. Oh, doctor. He went exactly against the railing in front of the bullpen and reached up with one hand and took a home run away from DiMaggio. And I'll always remember seeing Johnfrido holding up his black glove with a white spot in the center of it. DiMaggio, thinking it was a home run, was coming into second base and when he realized the ball had been caught, he stopped and kicked dirt and walked in tight circles out in the center field. I think it's one of the few times DiMaggio ever publicly was visibly upset. Seventh and final game, Yankee Stadium, Paige pitching for New York. Ninth inning, mixes on first, one out. The left-hander takes the stretch, has a look at the runner, throws to Bruce Edwards, who swings, hits a ground ball to Rizzuto. Over to Sternweiss for one out. The relay to first, it's a double play. The Yanks win and Joe Paige... In the seventh game, the Yankees beat the Dodgers 5-2 for their 11th World Championship. If we must get racially conscious about it and determining the laurels of heroism, we'll have to pass the laurels to the players of Italian extraction. In short, it has been a great series, no matter who your parents are. Wendell Smith, Pittsburgh, Korea. I never threw an illegal pitch. The trouble is, once in a while I toss one that ain't never been seen by this generation. Satcher-Page. On August 13th, 1948, at Comiskey Park in Chicago, the oldest rookie ever to play baseball walked to the mound to start his first game in the majors for Bill Vex Cleveland Indians. Leroy Satcher-Page had not been happy when Jackie Robinson, and not he, had been the first black player signed for the majors. And this was clearly his last chance to show the white world what it had been missing all these years. He was 42 years old, or 38, or 44, or 48, depending on whom he'd been talking to lately. Employing masterful control and his whole arsenal of distinctive pitches, including what he called his single wind-up, triple wind-up, hesitation wind-up, no wind-up, step-and-pitch it, sidearm throw, and back-dodger, he shut out the White Sox. Then did it again a week later. Page has great difficulty proving that he was not pitching for the Indians when the Pilgrims landed. He is pitching stellar ball, treating the batters, most of whom are flushed with youth, as though they were simply babes in the baseball woods. Wendell Smith, Pittsburgh Courier. A reporter once asked Page if he had any regrets. Very few, he said. But he was sorry he never got a chance to strike out Mae Ruth. That year, the Indians won the World Series. New York's Yankee Stadium, the house that Mae Ruth built, celebrates its 25th anniversary. Stars from New York's 1923 World Champions and other later-day Yankee heroes appear in a baseball tin-type. But biggest cheers from 50,000 fans go to the immortal star himself, Mae Ruth. On June 13, 1948, Yankee Stadium celebrated its first quarter century. And despite constant pain, the man who had christened it with a towering home run was determined to be on hand. Ruth sat quietly while one by one the other old-timers were introduced. Then he started onto the field. A sportswriter recalled that he walked out into the cauldron of sound he must have known better than any other man. Looking thin and worn as a result of his long illness, the Bambino is still the game's greatest showman. And nostalgia is thick in the vast stadium when he's greeted by another Yankee builder, Ed Barrow. Today, the Babe wears his old uniform for the last time. His famous number three will never be worn by another Yankee player, but will go to America's baseball shrine at Cooperstown, New York. For old times' sake, Babe takes a cut for the cameraman. The familiar stance and swing that once made him the most fearsome slugger of them all, his 1927 record of 60 home runs still stands. Yankee Stadium celebrates its birthday with one more salute to American baseball's greatest guy, Babe Ruth. All my obligations are over, he told his wife afterwards. I'm going to rest now. I'm going to take it easy. And he handled his sickness very well. Ford Frick, who was later Commissioner of Baseball, told me he went to see him the day before he died. He was very worried about his health. He was very worried about his health. Ford Frick, who was later Commissioner of Baseball, told me he went to see him the day before he died. He said he went to see him and it was an awful sight. He said he was such a big man and his arms were just little pipe stems. He said in that awful voice, Ruth said, you said you wanted to see me, Babe. And Babe said, it's always good to see you, Ford. Frick said it was just something to say, but he said it. And then Frick said he left and he went home and the next day he was dead. And it was just a dying fall, everything left. At 8.01 in the evening, on August 16, 1948, Babe Ruth died of cancer. I can't honestly say that I approve the way in which Ruth changed baseball, Ty Cobb wrote. But he was the most natural and unaffected man I ever knew. I look forward to meeting him again someday. It was hot in New York, but 100,000 fans turned out to see him lie in state at Yankee Stadium. At the funeral, Ruth's old teammates had served as pallbearers. I'd give a hundred bucks for an ice cold beer, said Joe Dugan to Waite Hoyt. Hoyt nodded. So would the Babe. Thank you for watching.