 Kent State University was regarded as conservative in orientation, at least in comparison to other colleges. But Kent State was not without its radicals or political differences. I had traveled to dozens of campuses and talked about the coming revolution. And I went to Kent State in the fall of 1968. And I was shocked by how organized they were and how militant they were. That's the point. Let's go out on campus, let's start ramping, let's start getting in the dorms. And when we go to Kent for the administration, we got 15,000 strong. Kent was a very alive place in those days, filled with people who wanted to know the truth. The downtown area of Kent, where all the students would meet at places like Walters Bar and J.B.'s and Cove, also attracted a lot of townies. And they hated the university. It represented to them debauchery and the degradation of America. Friday night, May the 1st, a minor skirmish developed outside of Tafford. And before night became morning, riot became reality. The students kind of gave the locals ammunition by going out in the streets and chanting. And then the fights broke out. 47 flake glass windows were smashed, where police officers were injured, and 14 persons were arrested. Kent Mayor Leroy Satrem imposes a dusk to dawn curfew on the city. That weekend, I was given a warning order to be prepared to move to Kent, Ohio, because of college rioting. The intelligence wasn't real good. We'd been informed that some militants had arrived in town, that there was possibility of some machine guns that existed. We were customarily handling racial riots and strikes and things of that nature. We knew sooner or later we were going to have to handle more radicalized demonstrations. Saturday night, I was in my dorm room, and there was a line of people marching past my window. I could tell it was a demonstration, and I wanted to know what people were talking about. So I went out and joined it. We ended up down on the Commons, and there were a few people who started trying to damage the ROTC building. They tried to set the building on fire, and I, you know, I was a good girl. I mean, I was a rule follower. I was pretty horrified. When we arrived at town, the entire sky was lit up like you would see in Baghdad, with the reflection of the fires and so on, and the sky. And it turned out that that was the ROTC building that was on fire. The building is engulfed in flames. Students are running, dancing around, making noise. And I'm thinking, you know, who's in charge here? The fire trucks come. The students attack the fire hoses. They start hacking at them with knives. I mean, this is not innocent stuff. This was not just a bunch of peaceful protesters who were, you know, set upon by a murder-mad National Guardsmen. You had a real insurrectionist situation going on here. This morning, things were calm as National Guardsmen began to clean up, and only a few charred rifles remained. Governor Rhodes, who visited the campus this morning, called it the worst violence in the state of Ohio and promised a crackdown on those involved. I think that we're up against the strongest, well-trained, militant, revolutionary group that has ever been in the state of Ohio. The most militant, revolutionary group that has ever assembled in America. Rhodes blamed the trouble at Kent on what he called well-trained revolutionary outsiders. I think that Governor Rhodes, who was a staunch conservative Republican, and he would have done anything to rid Kent State University of any student activists or political protests or dissent. These people just move from one campus to the other and terrorize the community. They're worse than the brown shirt and the communist element and also the night riders and the vigilantes. They're the worst. He dehumanizes the protesters in the most aggressive possible way. We are going to eradicate the problem. We're not going to treat the symptoms. It's a complete act of demagoguery and, of course, just manages to fan the flames some more. Sunday night, students clash with National Guardsmen and law officials, the result of dissent versus suppression. Sunday night, things got worse. A group of students marched to the corner of campus at Lincoln and Main where we were stopped. There was a curfew, in effect, but we just sat down on the pavement in the intersection. A helicopter with a searchlight came overhead and came down really low, so it was really loud, and the guardsmen were brandishing their bayonets, so it was scary. Sixty-nine persons were arrested on charges ranging from curfew violation to carrying weapons. Firing never came into the picture, although we were armed. We had weapons, we had bullets, we had all those things that go with it. I remember having this sense of now the guardsmen were this intrusive presence. Monday morning, May 4th, students plan a noon rally and law officials say they are prepared for any further violence. Approximately 600 National Guardsmen from Akron and the Cleveland areas are deployed either on campus or in the community nearby. The guard was called in response to student disturbances that resulted in the burning of an ROTC building. Under an ultrafaction of the KSU campus, orders have been issued to guardsmen banning all outdoor rallies and demonstrations, peaceful and otherwise. Whenever it was a demonstration of any kind of magnitude, someone would ring the bell, which you could hear almost all across campus. That's how huge the bell it is, and people would gather. I got up and went over to my friend Julie's room. She was getting ready, and I'm thinking, oh my God, we're going to be late for the revolution. I mean, you know, be late for the rally. Come on, Julie. It was almost like a festive occasion. Students on the side laughing and talking, hanging out in the grown windows, playing music. People are walking around in pretty good moods, and it was such a beautiful day. You know, I feel good. My personal recollection was that they were just sitting around yelling and doing the thing that student demonstrators do. But when we had orders to deal with student unrest, so we formed a line where the burned out ROTC building was. Leave this area immediately. Leave this area immediately. And of course, the students were going, hell no, you know. Take on camp! Take on camp! Take on camp! I was going there to exercise my constitutional rights. You know, not only was Nixon expanding this illegal war, but now our ability to disagree with that was being squelched by the presence of the guard on campus. I'm thinking this is going to be an event that's going to require force. By that I mean tear gas. Sure enough, the tear gas strikes. Some of the more militant activists, they're ready with their rags and their water bottles, trying to throw the canisters back at the guardsmen. And at that point we think, okay, this is a ritual. The guard would advance, do their thing with the tear gas. Some students would throw it back at them. This sort of wave-like action. Back and forth, back and forth. The demonstrators were showing really huge acts of aggression. People would run forward and throw things at you, you know, rocks and things like that. Most people wanted to move further, you know, basically maintain their distance from the guardsmen. You're trying to stay away from the tear gas. And we all went over the hill. And they came right over the hill after us. I got scared. That's the only honest thing I can say. I thought they were going to turn around and go back where they had come from. You just get a sense that something's not right here. Something's going to go on here. We thought they were going to march at us with bayonets. And instead... It's hideous. It's unbelievable. The guns were loaded. You're seeing the results of real gunshots. I sat down because I thought I was going to pass out. And I'm looking up at the sky and all these beautiful old-growth trees with just buds on them and trying to concentrate on that. Because I can't deal with what I've just seen. You know, I'm 19. There was a boy and he was lying face down in the street. He was just very still. And I wasn't thinking consciously that he was dead. I was just thinking that he was very still. But there was an enormous amount of blood. The very first thing I did was check everybody's rifle to make sure that nobody in my company had fired. Fortunately for everybody, some very rational and heroic professors showed up there and talked some sense into both sides. Just sit down. Sit down, please. Just sit down. We know they call the war troops. You can see them. Sit down. We sat down in rows on this slope and it was, you know, like I felt like I was in class. I don't care whether you've never listened to anyone before in your lives. I am begging you right now. If you don't disperse right now, they're going to move in and there can only be a slaughter. Would you please listen to me? Jesus Christ, I don't want to be a part of this. When Frank was begging us to leave and he was crying and I had never seen a man cry before. So we did. And we picked these directions that if the guards started shooting again, somebody would be alive to tell the story. The Decaturals with the Reverend Dr. Billy Graham. What do you feel about the criticism that the administration is contributing to the division in the country by such things as the president calling dissenters bums? I'm sure that he didn't mean for the whole public to hear that particular terminology. I don't know. I haven't talked to him. So I'm just guessing. I've never heard him call them bums. It seems like this tragedy yesterday in Ohio where the four students were shot, in a sense that kind of thing can somehow be linked to this sort of unfortunate language. I'm not saying that the president wanted anyone killed. Well, I think that the situation in Kent is tragic and terrible. I was just sick when I heard it. I knelt in prayer and I said, Oh God, what's happening to us that this could happen in America? But I also see and that that some of these things at the universities are not becoming dissent anymore. They're becoming mob action. And this is very dangerous. Gallup does a poll. Who's responsible for the students deaths? Fifty eight percent of Americans say the students are responsible for their own deaths. Only 11 percent claim the National Guard. What do you think about the shooting at Kent? The people weren't behaving properly and apparently they have asked for that sort of thing. So you think the guard was justified? Yes, I do. I'm sorry. They didn't kill more. Really? Yes, because they were warned and they knew what was happening and they should have moved out. If that's what it took to break them up, well, then that's what it takes.