Next on the American Experience. In World War II, Mexican Americans won more Medals of Honor than any other ethnic group in this country. But their biggest battle lasted for 50 years in the copper mines of Arizona. You can push people just so far and somebody's gonna squawk about it. We were right and they were wrong, and they knew it. Los Mineros, next on the American Experience. Major funding for this series is provided by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and by the financial support of viewers like you. Corporate funding for the American Experience is provided by Aetna. For more than 135 years, a part of the American Experience. Hello, I'm David McCullough. Welcome to the American Experience. Three and a half hours east of Phoenix on Route 666 in southeastern Arizona are two small towns few people have heard of. Clifton and Morenci, or Clifton Morenci. Since they're nearly side by side. You have to go by car. There's no airport, no train stop. Just as there's no book that tells the story you're about to see. No biographies of the hard, determined faces that look out of old photographs taken there at the turn of the century. When our story begins, Clifton Morenci is copper country. And the men who mined the copper, a force of thousands, were mostly Mexican Americans. They were desirable because they worked cheap. They did the dirtiest jobs, Mexican work, and were thought to be easy to handle. That they were dark eyed, dark skinned and Catholics also made them easy targets for abuse. They were segregated, discriminated against, locked out of white labor unions. The governor of Arizona, in an effort to explain why literacy in English was so low among them, noted sympathetically that they were so poor they couldn't clothe their children suitably for the classroom. They thought of themselves as true Americans, and in their struggle, they more than proved it. Los Mineros, the miners. This is a story of men who came to work in a foreign land. A story that has never been told. Las Mina de Cobre Hayzona they brought us from Mexico to work the copper mines of Arizona. We thought they saw us as human beings, but they only wanted are sweat and labor. For 50 years we fought, and in the end we triumphed. This is the story of the battle of Los Mineros. Clifton Morenci, Arizona. There is little left to remind us of the fortunes that were made and lost in these hills. Copper made this one of the richest mining districts in the United States. Thousands of Mexican workers came here. They were promised jobs and good wages. Among the first to arrive was the father of David Velazquez. He left Mexico with a few bags and a contractor's words of great opportunity still echoing in his head. My father came over to Morenci in about 1906, and he used to live in Chihuahua. Apparently, the American companies knew that the people from Chihuahua were experienced miners. So they used to send their people out there and recruit, and they come over what they used to call renganches. In other words, they recruit a bunch of people of men especially, and bring them over all together. Most of the mineros came from the northern Mexican states of Sonora and Chihuahua, where they had been miners for generations. They were brought to a small mining district in eastern Arizona. Within a few years, Clifton Morenci grew from 200 to 10,000. The mining boom was sparked by America's enormous appetite for copper. With the arrival of electricity, copper was needed for telephone lines, telegraph service and power plants. Newcomers from all over came to work in Morenci. They shared one thing in common, the business of getting copper out of the ground. Using candles for light, the miners spent 12 hours a day underground. They worked 4,000ft below the surface in a maze of tunnels 100 miles long. The shafts were supported only by wooden beams. You can always hear the timber creaking, like in an old house. Of course, the first thing you did when you went into your Oregon place was look for loose boulders, loose rock, and you put in timbers for as much room as you had, and you start drilling and just hope nothing fell on you. Work areas were cramped. The air was thin. Temperatures would rise to 104 degrees. As experienced miners, the mineros were accustomed to harsh conditions underground. What they weren't prepared for was the way they were treated simply because they were Mexican. Sylvester Maury, an early traveler to Arizona, wrote, my own experience has taught me that the lower class of Mexicans are docile, faithful, good servants. They have been peons for generations. It is their natural condition. Mexicans were assigned the worst jobs in the mines and the most dangerous. Anglo timbermen who built the wooden supports were paid $4 a day. Mexican timbermen received $2. Anglo muckers who shoveled the ore out of the mines were paid $1.50 a day. Mexican muckers were paid 70 cents. This dual wage system persisted throughout the mining industry. They brought us for our skills and now they treat us worse than dogs because we are not like them. They forget we are men. In those days, a lot of them suffered. They were the burros, the ones that did all the work in those mines. See what I mean? Those were the guys that producing and dying in there. The minero not only faced hardship in the mines, but but also in town. A company town built chiefly by the Phelps Dodge corporation. Like all such towns, the company owned and operated everything from the waterworks to the hospital to the workers homes. Miners bought their food and dry goods at the Phelps Dodge mercantile store, where markups of 200% were common. With a day's salary, a miner could only buy a dozen eggs and. And a pound of coffee. It was hard on my father because he didn't know how to speak English. He didn't know how to add or subtract. I saw receipts from the grocery store where they would add them up. They didn't have an adding machine at that time. Add them up by hand. 6 and 6, 15. 1. And carried a 5 always to the store. At Vanish, the Morenci club was where company officials and their families spent their free time. Here they could play billiards, tennis and bridge. The club was off limits to Mexicans, as were all Anglo establishments. Socializing between Anglos and Mexicans was strictly forbidden. This one morning when I went to work, told me the Mayans who contended wanted to see me. So I went over and he said, avery, you had so and so up to your house last night? I said, yeah. He said, you don't have Mexicans come to your house? I said, well, goddamn, it's my house. I'll have anybody come do what I want. He said, no. He said, that's a company house. He said, you work for the company. Remember that? Mexicans were forced to live in the most undesirable parts of town, usually along steep hillsides. In Morenci, the Mexican side of town was called called Chihuahua Hill. Unlike Anglo neighborhoods, Mexican homes had no electricity or running water. Most houses were made from scrap wood supplied by the company. In the hill where we used to live, they called it Chihuahuita because there was a lot of people from Chihuahua. Most of those people had to build their own shacks. Just get one by 12s, put them together, make a room and a roof and cover them with muslin. A lot of the people, all they had was those powder boxes, you know, wooden powder boxes they used as chairs. I remember a lot of times we see people moving from one house to the other, you know, and they always did it at night. And one time I asked my mother, how come they always do it at night? Why don't they do it in daytime? He said, well, he says their furniture is so bad that they want to move at night. When people won't see what they have. A sense of community developed in Chihuahuita, shut out by the Anglos, the mineros started societies of their own, called mutualistas or mutual aid. Societies were very important for Mexicans to combat racism. The Alianza Hispanamericana or La Liga Protectora made it very clear that they were there to protect the rights of Mexicans to speak out for the Mexican, to help them in any way that they could. The mutualistas offered burial insurance and sponsored social events and increasingly tried to deal with the hostile Anglo world. A report from the Department of Interior in 1908 stated. The Mexican laborer is unambitious, listless, physically weak, irregular and indolent. His strongest point is his willingness to work for low wages. As the mine owners aggressively recruited Mexican labor, Anglo workers were terrified. Their own jobs were in jeopardy because Mexicans worked for so little. The Anglos turned to a union, the Western Federation of Miners. The WFM decided the best way to protect Anglos was to drive the Mexicans out of the mines. The anti Mexican campaign began with a devious plan. Anglos were paid by the day, the Mexicans by the hour. The union forced the copper companies to cut the workday from 10 hours to eight hours. Overnight, the Mineros suffered a 20% cut in pay. On the morning of June 3, 1903, for the first time in Arizona history, over a thousand Mexican workers went out on strike. The mining companies refused to negotiate. Avran Salcido, a 26 year old Minero from Chihuahua, led the strike against the company, becoming a folk hero in the process. The verses that I sing is a corrido to remember a hero whose name is Avran Salcido. He came to Clifton, Arizona to help his countrymen earn an equal wage. Like the Americans, the mineros armed themselves and took control of the mines, shutting down the smelters and mills. The governor asked the Mexican consul to come talk some sense to the Mexicans and ordered 300 Arizona Rangers to the scene. Two thousand miners marched in solidarity through the town, openly taunting the Rangers. The governor cabled President Roosevelt asking for cavalry support. At the height of the tension, a heavy thunderstorm broke. A massive flood swept over the city. When the flood hit the Mexican side of town, 50 people were killed instantly. Most of their homes were destroyed. The next day, federal troops disarmed the strikers and placed the community under martial law. 10 of the strike leaders were arrested, including Avran Salcido. He was sentenced to three years in prison for inciting a riot. Within two weeks, the strikers were Back at work, the strike had failed. The dual wage system was still in place. The mineros had lost the opening skirmish, but the battle was finally far from over. Every day people was getting hurt underground mining. A lot of times people will blow up working with the dynamite and sometimes the tunnels where they work at will cave in. Almost every day they used to bring out somebody with a broken leg, broken arm, broken something, neck or something like that. Every day used to have been dead. A lot of them got cut by those motor cars they had in there that pulled those little old cars. Sometimes it was pretty dark in there, you know, with a, with the dust and fumes in there and these guys couldn't see those motor cars coming. And I saw a lot of them die. There was not too much protection for the workers. They did most of the drilling dry. They didn't have respirators. The only thing they could do was cover their face with a handkerchief. Among the worst threats miners faced was silicosis, known as miners consumption. One out of every three miners got this deadly lung condition from years of breathing the mineral dust. My father, after putting about 22 years on the ground, he could barely breathe. He calves day and night because his lungs are full of the dust, you know, can't get it out of there no more. They cough day and night and every time they cough, they throw out small pieces of lungs until their lungs disappear and they die. It's painful. I remember when my father died, we took him by horse buggy from here down to the depot. Any worker that died, that worked for the company at that time, the company would furnish the train. They would take them by train to the cemetery. They used to call it a Catholic cemetery because all the Chicanos were Catholics. They wouldn't want to call it the Mexican cemetery, so they just call it the Catholic cemetery. Forty miles south of the US border was a mining empire in Cananea, Mexico. An American colonel, William Greene, owned the Cananea Copper Company. Mexican President Porfirio Diaz had enticed foreign industrialists to take advantage of Mexico's rich natural resources. By 1906, Cananea looked more like a company town in Arizona than a Mexican pueblo. The town's most proud, prominent structure was not the Catholic church, but Colonel Greene's two story clapboard mansion. The mineros suffered the same conditions as their countrymen north of the border. They endured segregated housing, lack of promotion, and even in Mexico, a dual wage system. The Americans were paid three, the number three in dollars, and the Mexicans were paid three pesos the rate of exchange was two to one. So automatically Americans for the same type of work got paid twice as much. Outraged by this oppressive treatment of their fellow countrymen, Mexican intellectuals and political activists began to organize. Cananea became a symbol of foreign tyranny. Senores mineros, teach the American you are not beast of burden. The American who has displaced us with his legion of blue eyed blondes. Esteban Calderon. My father was a baker and he owned a bakery there in Cananea. But yet he was one of those liberal types and I guess he liked to play politics. He would sympathize with the miners over the conditions that they were subject. So over here they were a little place called Oriplata where they used to plant their tragedies. Abran Salcido was released from prison in Arizona in the spring of 1906. He went directly to Cananea to join the labor organizers working in the mines. On June 2 that same year, the mineros went out on strike. They gathered to present their demands to company officials. Colonel Greene personally came out and talked to the miners and told them that he wanted to raise their salaries but that the president of Mexico wouldn't allow it, that he was asking them as a friend to go back to work. The strikers refused. Dressed in their Sunday best, they marched through the camp to gather supporters. Over 2,500 arrived at the company's lumber yard run by two Americans, George and Will Metcalfe. George had been warned the strikers were coming. The first thing that the two Metcalf brothers did inside of the lumberyard was to turn on the hoses that they had in case of a fire and they trained it on the crowd. This infuriated the miners, so they forced the doors open. The two Metcalf brothers shot apparently first into the air and then directly into the crowd, killing two or three of the miners. The miners set fire to the office of the lumberyard to smoke the two Metcalfe brothers out. They came out still shooting, and the miners killed them both. One of them was apparently killed with his own rifle and the other one was clubbed to death and stuck to death with miners candlesticks that they were still carrying during the. During the march that they had. Once they had killed the two Metcalfe brothers, the miners were met by a group of about 30 armed Americans headed by Greene and. And the shooting began again. By 4 o' clock that afternoon, Mexican troops arrived to put down the strike. They were joined by 270Arizona Rangers who had been armed at the Phelps Dodge Mercantile Store the rangers had violated Mexican law in crossing the border with arms. To avoid an international incident, they were hastily deputized by the Mexican state governor. By the next day, the strike had been put down. Once again, Abran Salcido and the other strike leaders were jailed for inciting a riot. My father was arrested and sent to prison. They never could prove anything. So he came to United States and he says, I've had enough of that thing. In Mexico, 23 people lost their lives at Tananaya, 17 of them Mexican. The strike had failed. None of the strikers demands was met. But the Cananea strike would give birth to the first major revolution of the 20th century, the Mexican Revolution. In the end, Porfirio Diaz would be in exile and 1 million of his countrymen would lay dead. The violence of the Mexican Revolution would have a lasting impact impact on the border region. Volatile racial tensions were inflamed. Arizonans feared the bloodshed would spill over the border. To survive in this hostile environment, the Minetos turned inward, looking to each other for help and support. Strong ties of language and culture kept them united. On Mexican holidays, everyone in Chihuahuita turned out to celebrate. They used to have a town band and they used to have concerts at the plaza, you know, had a little kiosk, you know, gazebo I think they call it. And. And it was something like a family day. The big fiesta was on 16th of September, Cinco de Mayo. They used to have games and contests and races and boxing matches. They used to have what they called charrascos, which was house parties. They had a regular orchestra, you know, violin, guitar and maybe a bass. We used to have good orchestra, very good music. You never heard that. I had to pick two pies or three pies every Saturday or two, three cakes every Saturday so I could go to the dance. And of course they always had a tub full of ice and beer. Used to be homebrew. We kids used to go there and stand out on the porch and look inside, look at the grown ups dancing and kicking up quite a storm. They were really dances. We wear long dresses. What you're talking about long dresses. We used to dance the floor with that. By 1915, a new union had entered Arizona. The International Workers of the World, better known as the Wobblies, were motivated by socialist ideals and dedicated to the overthrow of capitalism. The IWW was looked upon as being a radical movement made up of unpatriotic Americans who were suspect of having communistic tendencies. The IWW wanted to represent the working class. The IWW wanted to represent the immigrant, and the IWW especially wanted to represent the Mexican immigrant. The demand was that everyone be treated equally on the job. The men of the union were demanding that they be recognized and there be no discrimination against anyone because of race, religion or national origin. World War I brought the Mineros, the Wobblies and the mining companies into a sharp confrontation. With the country at war, the demand for copper rose astronomically. In two years, the price of copper had jumped from 13 cents to 27 cents a pound. By 1917, Phelps Dodge reported a 218% increase in net profits. The workers saw none of this in their paychecks. On June 27, 1917, in nearby Bisbee, 4,000 workers demanded higher wages and an end to the dual wage system. Bolstered by the support of large numbers of mineros, the wobblies called a strike, war or no war. Walter Douglas, president of Phelps Dodge, had no patience for the demands. Those who are not for us are against us. The strikers are getting further and further outside the citizens of this country who place devotion to flag above every other consideration. An infected sore may well become a cancer if it is not cut out. Walter Douglas. Phelps Dodge quickly retaliated. They put the story out that the miners tunneled underground, that they were German spies and they were going to blow up the Bisbee post office. But the mining company took over the telephone company, the Western Union. They put guards on all incoming and outgoing traffic. You could not come into Bisbee and you could not get word out without mining company permission. Early on the morning of July 12, 1917, vigilantes armed by Phelps Dodge arrested 2,000 strikers at gunpoint. The prisoners were marched into the downtown plaza. Those who pledged loyalty to the company were released. Everyone else was marched to the edge of town. My father was operating a jitney service. It was a long distance taxi and a local taxi, too. His customers, I assume, would have been mostly the miners. When they started running the people out of town, they came and got him. Early in the morning, 1200 prisoners were loaded into cattle cars of the El Paso and Southwestern Railroad owned by Phelps Dodge. Packed, 50 to a car, they were taken 200 miles to Columbus, New Mexico. They were dumped in the desert with no food or water and threatened with death if they returned to Bisbee. Phelps Dodge announced, any talk of their coming back is nonsense. They will not be allowed to come back. The serious business of this district is the mining of copper ore, not the building of nightly schools of anarchism. A year later, a commission appointed by President Woodrow Wilson condemned the Bisbee deportation, as it came to be known. It was called a grave violation of the law and the constitution. Unions would not return to Arizona for 25 years. Well, all you gotta do is get the public stirred up and they'll. Freedom is out the window. What is it? Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty. And if you're not eternally vigilant, you're going to lose your liberty. And the Mexicans didn't have any to begin with, and the rest of them didn't have much more. As a matter of fact, Phelps Dodge was growing increasingly powerful. The company bought all of Arizona's leading newspapers. Telephone and telegraph systems were company controlled. Even town attitudes were dominated by the company. A lot of the anglos that were in high position would take advantage of a lot of the Chicanos by pointing the finger at them or trying to make them feel inferior. I remember I was about 10 years old and I was coming from the post office with a. With one of my uncles. We're coming by and this guy by the name of Pete Riley, he was a druggist right across the river and he was driving a 29 Dodge. He slammed on the brakes. Cause we tried to cross there and say, you goddamn dirty Mexican, next time you do something like this, I'm gonna kick your ass up and down the railroad tracks. And that engraved in me for years and years and years. For the next decade, the mineros, isolated and powerless, could do little to improve their situation. But the worst was yet to come. In 1931, at the beginning of the depression, the bottom dropped out of the copper market. Phelps Dodge closed down the mines. Of 3,000 formerly employed miners, only 42 had jobs. 8 million people across the United States were out of work in the southwest. Mexican Americans became scapegoats for the economic crises. America's problems were due to the fact of the economy being in such a depressed state. America's problems were blamed on the immigrants themselves. And in this case, again, it was the Mexican. The administration of president Herbert Hoover announced that strict enforcement of immigration laws would help solve the national unemployment problem. Mexicans, who had been encouraged to cross the border openly for decades, were the immediate target. The government moved swiftly to deport any Mexicans whose citizenship could be questioned. The program was called repatriation. What started out, perhaps as a very mannerly order, turned out to be a total helter skelter way of sending Mexicans back home. Mexicans were rounded up illegally. Mexicans were just shipped back. Many of these Mexicans were Americans. They were Born in the United States, they were naturalized legally. Los mineros, who by now had deep roots in the US Were no longer wanted. Little distinction was made between those born in Mexico and those born in the United States. Some escaped being deported through pure luck. My mother was expecting my youngest brother, Richard, and we were not able to get on that train. My youngest brother was born the next day, so that kept it from going back to Mexico. Phelps Dodge assisted with a repatriation effort. They provided the trains to carry the mineros away. Most of them wouldn't argue because they knew they would suffer at the end. One way or other, they'd get a hold of them, you know where they would make them wish they had gone. There's nothing I could do. I just took those people around the border of Mexico. The PD and the Red Cross was paying me for that and they gave me some money to give those people. When I unload everything they had, all I had to do, unload trunks or boxes, whatever they had. It's something that it's really hard to describe because it hurts you. It hurt me and I didn't have to go. But my friends, young buddies that had to go, they put them on that train and God only knows. By the time the repatriation program ended, more than 500,000 people of Mexican descent were deported to Mexico. Half the population of Clifton Morenci was gone. By the mid-1930s, the mining companies were recovering from the depression. Phelps Dodd was hiring again. Taking the place of the old minero was a new generation of Mexican American. I went to work for the Morenci mine in August of 1937 with a job and looked at one of the foremans, said, well, there's a lot of men that want a job. And it's true, you know, when the mine was open in 36, there was a lot of people that were looking for jobs. Thousands of unemployed Americans poured into Arizona desperate for work. They were worse off than we were. In fact, my mother and dad allowed some of them to stay in our yard and we shared our food with them because they were so poor. And you could tell some of them hadn't had a bath in a month of Sundays. Well, when they got jobs up in Morenci, our men were relegated to the tracks. Once again, Anglo Americans were given the best jobs in the mines. Since many had never worked in mining, Mexican Americans were often required to train them. Los mineros were left with the hardest and lowest paid jobs. The dual wage system was alive and well. In my gang I had some fellows that they were actually better educated than I was. They were digging ditches or chunking rocks under a railroad track. One of our friends asked for a job as a truck driver, and they bluntly told him, that job's not for you boys. By late 1941, after two generations in the mines, Mexican Americans were still the lowest paid workers and still limited to dead end jobs. As their working conditions deteriorated, Los mineros realized they would have to push for their own union. But it would have to wait. In spite of the harsh treatment they were receiving When World War II began, Mexican Americans immediately supported the war effort and America was eager to draft them. If you were a drafty age and they wanted to draft you or send you to service, they wouldn't ask no, no questions whatsoever. I had signed right after Pearl harbor because my mother came and said, now, son, it's your duty, you serve your country. Say, I ain't got nothing to give to this country except my sons. So say you join. And I did. As they went off to war, Fiumineros realized that the next four years would be the major turning point in their lives, changing forever Clifton Morenci, Phelps Dodge and themselves. Within months, Ed Montoya was in Okinawa, where some of the worst fighting of the war took place. April 13, at 8 o' clock in the morning, there was 186 men in my company. By 5 o' clock in the afternoon, there was only 24 hours left. I remember a guy by the name of Thacker. I knew there would be days like that, he would say, and tears started running down his eyes. I said, hey, hey, wait a minute, what's going on here? I'm the one that's supposed to be crying. Said, you guys are Superman, you're Batman, you're Roy Rogers, you're super. You're not supposed to cry. I never heard an Anglo cry in my life. Here in the neighborhood, I heard all kinds of kids, Mexicanos, crying, and I thought we were the only ones that cried. We went on a patrol and there were six of us. We were gonna go on a reconnaissance patrol and two of the Anglo boys didn't wanna go. I told them, I said, hey, wait a minute, there's a guy that you're supposed to refuse would be me. Because back in the States I was discriminated and I should refuse to go right now. But go. Ready to go. Come on, bastard, let's go. They just bowed their heads. We went on the patrol. See those things are inside of you. At home, Phelps Dodge was busy filling a War department order for 45,000 tons of ore per day. Copper was used for bullets, shells, and communication equipment. Like hundreds of defense industry workers, David velazquez was given a war deferment. Along with other miners, he continued to push for a union. We had talked about the discrimination on job. We had to fight that discrimination. And the only way to fight it was to get organ. Fearing company reprisals, meetings were held in out of the way places. Union organizers would never gather in the same spot twice. They had to start having those secret meetings out on the tules, out on the stakes. I say they were scared of the company, you know, they were scared of getting. So they had to hide, you know, in cemeteries and other places. They were afraid that if Phelps dodge got wind of it, you know, they could scotch it before they could get any strength going, you know. For the mineros, the secret meetings were risky. They knew they could lose their jobs in their homes and be forced out of town. But the meetings continued. After 11 long months of struggle, los mineros finally had the numbers to form a union. For the first time in Arizona history, Mexican Americans had their own union. David velazquez was elected vice president of the mine mill and smelter workers. They came to be known as the mexican union, but the company refused to recognize their union. When the war was over, Mexican Americans returned as the mineros had changed, But Clifton morenci had not. The returning veteran. When he came back from war abroad and he went back to his community, he saw that not much had changed. Segregation was still evident. Racism was still evident. Recreational facilities were segregated. Schools were still segregated. In a sense, you had restaurants that didn't allow Mexicans to come in. You had theaters that didn't allow Mexicans to come in. Nothing had changed for him. But at the same time, he saw that he was equal because he had fought abroad, he had been shot at, he had served his country well. I was wounded in action in Okinawa. I was awarded a purple heart. I was in 13 naval engagements. I guess there's very few that are. Nick was out here in my hometown. I was over there 39 months, never came home. And I couldn't even get into their bar. Mexican Americans brought home more medals of honor than any other ethnic group in the country. At Phelps dodge, the Mexican union was negotiating its first contract. Their demand was to supposed equal pay for equal work. We still did not have a signed contract with the company, so we started negotiating immediately after the end of the war. But the talks broke down on September 22, 1946. The Mexican Union called a Strike. But the company failed to recognize will was the new confidence the war had given the Mineros. The majority of us was coming out of the service and it gave us that security, not to be afraid and to fight and fight for what's right, you know, after all, we went to earn that here at work. They made us feel like us Chicano would be followers. You could never be a leader. I would say to myself here after I came back in 46, hey, somebody's been lying to me all these years. How come I went in as a private and I came out as a leader? If that can happen in the army in combat, why can it happen in the smaller. Well, we can it. They were all working together side by side. It was our job to get in and try to help. We went for 104 days of strike. The strike spread from town to town throughout the Southwest. 6,000 Mexican Americans joined the strike in neighboring states. 90% of the workforce was on the picket line. You can push people just so far, just so far, and somebody's gonna squawk about it. And if you're on the right, brother, don't be afraid, go to it 100%. And we were right and they were wrong and they knew it. After 15 weeks, with their losses mounting, Phelps Dodge had had enough. The company was forced to recognized the Mexican union. The demands for equal pay, benefits and promotions were met. After 50 years, the dual wage system was abolished. The battle of Los Mineros, the battle their fathers had fought and their fathers before them was finally over. We started getting good benefits, we started getting good medical plan, pensions, hospitalization. We got everything. I get a very good pension. I would have never got it. If I'd have sat on my butt and not pull with the rest, we wouldn't have anything right now. They would have thrown us like they did the old miners that were already sick. You know, with silicosis. They throw them out to pass, to die. I never thought that we'd have to go back. I never thought that there was any time when we would be saying, well, that's as far as we can go. Because we just kept going and going. SA Major funding for this series is provided by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and by the financial support of viewers like you. Corporate funding for the American Experience is provided by Aetna. For more than 135 years, a part of the American Experience. For video cassette information about this program, please write PBS Video, 1320 Braddock Place, Alexandria, VA 22314. This is PBS. For a printed transcript of Any American experience program. Send $5 to Journal Graphics, 267 Broadway, New York, NY. Or call 212-227. Reed. Please specify program subject and date.