Hello. We're going to talk today about the American expansion into the trans Mississippi West. We're going to focus some on the events that actually happened during that period of time, but we're going to mainly focus on an issue or a concept in historical, in the historical profession called historiography. H I S T O R I O G R A P H Y Historiography. And that is essentially the history of history. It is a story, it is the history of how the narrative has been told over time. And what we're going to look at today is how Americans saw expansion into the west during the 19th century and in how that perception of it changed in, in the 20th century. So we're going to start with. I'm going to be looking, we're going to be looking at one of our screens here, so let me go ahead and share the screen. All right, so now the thing about the west is there, there's a lot, there's, there's a certain subset or a certain set of things that happened between the period, say around 1850 and 1900 that involved the settlement of the West. And most of it was actually, you know, pretty mundane, as we'll kind of discover here in a minute. But it was mythologized by Americans. Americans saw the conquest of the west as the playing out of the American mission to spread its ideals and its ideology and its civilization across the, across the continent. A kind of a fulfillment of the idea of manifest destiny. And so the, the theme of the American west is mythologized in literature and in, you know, performing acts, performing troops like Buffalo Bills, Buffalo Bill Wild west or Buffalo Bills Wild west show and in movies. I mean, you guys probably have seen tons of the movies about the west and you know, they were even more prevalent when I was younger. And so what happens is that we develop this myth about what happened in the west. And because it's been so mythologized, it's hard for us to really take a clear eyed look at what actually happened. The thing that, and that's what we're going to be really addressing in today's lecture. But what really ends up happening is that the west comes to symbolize the United States both for Americans and for foreigners. Right? So if you want to think about what is the quintessential image of the United States, it's the cowboy. And I'm going to show you that in a second here. The thing that we need to start off by saying is that the cowboy is not this heroic, liberty loving nature, nature loving knight of the plains. It's actually being a cowboy was actually meant to herd cattle across the. Across the countryside. And that was a very difficult job. It was something that was performed by young guys, and it was really kind of menial manual labor. So it's a lot like, you know, mythology. If we were today mythologizing construction workers or truck drivers, it's not that those are not honorable professions. It is that we don't really think of, you know, construction workers as being representative of our ideal and our ethos. Right. So. So let's take a look then at a. A, A representation of the cowboy. And I got this actually from the LA Times quite some time ago, and obviously the. The date in this was in 2003. And it just occurred to me recently that this is probably really dated for you guys, because it's talking about. It was during the time of the United States contemplating the invasion of Iraq. And the Americans were pushing very hard for an invasion, and our allies in Europe were pushing back on it. So much so that the French were vocally against American intervention or anybody's intervention in Iraq. And the United States people in the United States were offended by that. So that for some period of time, we had freedom fries instead of French fries. But at any rate. So this is part of that debate that comes out of the LA Times at that period of time. And what we can see here is really two mirrors, right? And the mirrors, on the one hand, how do Americans see Americans? And that. You see that there's the cowboy with his clean cut. He's. He's wearing a star. He's got a white hat. He is the representation of the good guy. And then on the other hand, the way the Europeans see Americans is this slovenly, dirty, smoking bandit waving his guns around and standing in a pool of blood and wearing a black hat. So what we see then is that both Americans and Europeans think of Americans as cowboys. But a cowboy can be defined in two different ways, either as a hero or as a villain. And in the middle of the picture, you can see George Bush, who was president at the time, trying to make this decision or pushing this idea of invading Iraq. The main thing to take away from this is that, is that the cowboy essentially becomes the. The representation of the United States, both for Americans and for foreigners. All right, so we're going to shift gears here a little bit, and we're going to talk about the first. Or I would say, yeah, it's really the first, but also the. The prototypical description of how the west was settled and, and to. To understand was written. There's. It was written by a man. It was a thesis written by a man named Frederick Jackson Turner, who was a professor of history at the University of Wisconsin. Was. He's very important in American. In the American historical profession because he was really the one who kind of established the tenets of professional historians in the United States. But he's most famous for a. Writing a thesis that he wrote which was called the Importance of the Frontier, the Significance of the Frontier in American History. It was published in 1893. And what he is responding to is a report from the Census Bureau that the frontier is closed. Okay, so now what do we mean by that? Let's take a look here at a map. And what we can see is when you take this census, the census is done every 10 years. It's in the Constitution. And the purpose of the census is to discover where everybody in the United States lives, and that means everybody. And the purpose of that is to decide representation because there's only so many representatives, and those representatives have to be divided up among the whole population. So every 10 years, there's a count that's made to decide who gets what representatives. Like, for example, last year we did the census. And what we're. We don't know this yet, but what we probably are going to see, excuse me, is that California lost population and Texas gained population. And that means possibly that California will lose representatives and Texas will gain representatives. That's the whole purpose of doing the census. But so, so when they do the census, then they count all the people, but they'll also. They'll also have to graphically visualize where the people live. And so if you, for example, look at this green area, this is. We're going to say we start in 1870. There's a census in 1870. And the green area is the area that's settled enough so that you can say this is a settled area. And then everything else is not settled. Okay? So that's what we would call the frontier. All right? And then what you can see then is that when they take the census ten years later, the frontier is smaller. It shrunk, okay? In 1880, all these areas now that are orange have been settled. And so the frontier itself is smaller. And then by 1890, we can see that it's expanded, the frontier or the settled area has expanded even further. And it's going to be this expansion counted in the 1890 census that will cause the Census Bureau to conclude that the frontier is closed. All right? And that's what we see here in this statement. Up to and including 1880, country had a frontier settlement. But at present, the unsettled area has been so broken into by isolated bodies of settlement that there can hardly be said to be a frontier line in the discussion of its extent and its westward movement. It cannot, therefore, any longer have a place in the census reports. And this is what motivated Frederick Jackson Turner to consider the significance of the frontier in American history. Because what Frederick Jackson Turner is going to propose is that the character of the United States that comes to be represented in the Cowboy comes from the frontier. And what I mean by that is that the frontier creates conditions where, where people must develop the ideals and the characteristics that Americans value, like individualism and rugged individualism and love of nature. And, you know, the idea of expansion, these sorts of things are the result of creating a civilization in a place where there is no civilization. And so, so the way that he imagines it is if we look at this map here and we'll go all the way back to the, the beginning, the first, the first colonies, there were colonies in Virginia and in, in New England. And what the people that came, according to Turner, what the people that came to America from Europe were doing was fleeing European civilization. That, that, that Frederick Jackson Turner will conclude that European civilization is decadent, that it creates oppression, it creates ill health, you know, low infant mortality or high infant mortality rate, those sorts of things. And so when people come to America, they're trying to get away from that. And so they move then from a place where there is no civilization, from a place where that is civilized, to a place where there is no civilization. And that means that they have to create a new civilization in a place where there is none. And that's going to be, it's going to be by that process that the American character will be developed, all right? And so, so then what we see happening is that all of the, the decadence of European civilization gets left behind in America because America is creating a new civilization out of a frontier. The problem is that as the, as the civilization in America spreads, it too becomes decadent. And so what happens is that where we had this ideal civilization at one point, as it becomes more and more civilized, it becomes more and more decadent, like Europe. The, the. And that means then that what the people had escaped, actually they recreated. But the saving grace for America is that there's always a new frontier. So when people, when the west, the east becomes too decadent, then people can move into the west, further into the west, and that create a new frontier, create a new civilization. And this keeps the American character alive. And they keep doing that. They keep moving further and further west as long as they can. But in 1890, the frontier is closed. That means that there's no more frontier on the American continent to conquer. Which means that the American character is. Is. Is. Is threatened, is challenged. All right? Because it has been the frontier that kept the American character alive. But now the frontier, the. That character is being challenged because there's no longer any frontier. And then there's this danger that the United States will become decadent like. Like Europe. Okay, now let's just. Let's take again the. Frederick Jackson Turner writes this thesis, the significance of the frontier in American history. And what we can see here is some of his writing. And really, it describes how the frontier creates the American character. It describes the fact that there always has been a West that could be moved into. And that west causes the reenactment of the civilizing process, where you go from a savagery to the trader, the pathfinder, and then ranch life and farmers, and then denser farmers settling in manufacturing and the factory system. So that's the progress of civilization. And keep in mind that at this time in the west, really, in the industrializing countries like the United States, there was a sense that this was the natural order, the natural progress of civilization. That you would go from. That you would go from. From savagery to this pinnacle of civilization, which was a manufacturing society. Okay, and then also keep in mind as what we saw, what we talked about Monday, I guess, whenever we talked about industrialization, that meant that people who had developed manufacturing societies looked at countries that had not developed those kinds of societies as being backwards. And that leads to what we call the civilizing mission of the British or American manifest destiny. But at any rate, what he says then is that it was this creation, this progress of civilization that creates the striking characteristics of the American. Okay, and then he describes it here. Okay, and then. And then he finally. He finally summarizes or concludes that. That. That because the frontier is gone, the first period of American history is over. All right? And that doesn't mean that the United States is over. What it means is that the United States will have to turn somewhere else for its frontier. And. And that's when we. It's. It's, you know, historically accurate to say that. That after 1890, after the frontier in America was closed, we start to see American foreign intervention in overseas places in Asia and particularly in Latin America. So. So the idea then of the expansion Imperial expansion, which we saw on the North American continent now will spread elsewhere in the world. At the same time, the United States will become. Come to think of the frontier as being something less tangible, something like, like maybe a scientific frontier or, or a literary frontier. And then finally, Obviously, in the 1960s, we come to the final frontier, space. Okay, so. So the idea then is that the frontier, even though the actual physical frontier is closed, there is still this idea of the frontier which is fundamental to the American character. All right, now what we want to do is we want to think about when Frederick Jackson Turner describes this movement into the West. Is he thinking about something that's good or not? And it may seem that because it comes to an end, that it's not such a good thing. But what he's describing, remember, is this civilizing process. And from the point of view of people who lived at that time, Americans, the civilizing process was, was the natural order of things. So it was a good thing. Right? And we've already seen this painting, but we'll take a look again here. This is American what Progress. Right. Excuse me. And what it shows is the American way. American civilization expanding from the east to the West. You see, the east is all clean and light, which is interesting because as we know, industry creates a lot of really nasty environmental consequences. But from the point of view of the people that lived at the time, manufacturing was like Star Trek is to us. It was all clean and technological and good. Right? And then what we see is that we're taking this enlightened civilization into the dark West. Okay? So when we go into the dark west, we see whatever is living there, the animals and the natives are fleeing before American progress. And that's a good thing. They need to somehow either be subdued or disappear because the whole. The natural order of things is that they will be replaced by the American civilization here. Okay? So when we think about Frederick Jackson Turner's underlying idea of the settlement of the west, we have to acknowledge that that idea is, is one of the. The advancement of enlightenment. Okay? And that would be something that we would consider a good thing. Okay? Now when the, this idea that, that Turner had, we can describe with a word. The word is ontology. O N T O L O G Y Ontology. And this is a difficult word, and it's kind of a difficult concept, but it's something that's fundamental to historical, to the historical profession. Because what is ontological is what we know to be true without even knowing that we know it. I, I know that sounds weird, but. But What. It's. It's like. It's like the underlying foundation of knowledge. It's something that is. Is. It kind of arises from the culture, and it. It sets the standard for what can be considered true and what is not true. All right? So. Or can't be true. And for example, in the time that Turner wrote, what was ontological to the people of the United States was that the American expansion into the west was a heroic project. Something that. That was. That. That was expanding the American way. And that was a good thing. Right. And that was what everybody believed. And it really goes along with this sense that we talked about last week, the American sense of mission, the mission of the United States to spread liberty with an exclamation point, the idea that the United States is at the forefront of civilization. And this is something that Americans will internalize and believe really all the way up until probably the last half of the 20th century. So this is. With this in mind, this idea that pretty much everybody knows that what's happening, that's really the description of. Of what's ontological is everybody knows that. So how do you know something is true? Well, everybody knows that that's what's ontological. Right. Some. Some people would call it common sense. The. In fact, there was a book written during the American Revolution called Common Sense or Before the American Revolution. And that was a, A, A book that was written to challenge what was ontological at the time. Right. What was ontological at the time was that to. In order to rule a large country, you needed to have a monarch. And, and Thomas Paine wrote this book, Common Sense, saying, no, that's ridiculous. You don't need a monarch that people can rule themselves. Okay. And that was a challenge to the. What was ontological at the time? All right, but what we see here with Turner is not a challenge to what's ontological, but a kind of a endorsement of it. Now, let's think about the history of the United States from the time that Frederick Jackson Turner wrote until, say, today or the last part of the 20th century. And what we'll notice is that this sense of mission that. That drove the Americans really was with Americans all the way up until the time or during World War II. And World War II seemed to be the fulfillment of the American mission, because the Americans came to the rescue of democracy and liberty throughout the world and emerged from World War II as the most powerful and most prosperous nation on earth. And so it seemed there for a moment that the United States had really reached the pinnacle of what it of its sense, of its own sense of mission. But World War II also opened up a lot of old wounds in American society that will challenge American society from then, really from. For the rest of the century. And among those are going to be civil rights and gender rights and things like that that will come up. And also the United States abandons its. Since its policy of isolationism and takes on a leading role in, in the world as, as the world's really the first, what we call superpower and, and will enter into a long conflict with the Soviet Union in what's called the Cold War. And then as part of that Cold War, the United States. Well, I should say it this way. The, the United States sees itself in the Cold War as the defender of liberty, as the defender of democracy. And that goes along with the American sense of mission. That the American sense of mission is not only to spread democracy, but to defend it. And communism, from the point of view of Americans is not democratic. So it's actually antithetical. And it is actually theoretically as well as practically. All right, so, so then the United States then engages in the world in different places. The United States engages in Korea, for example, because, because the Soviet backed North Koreans invade South Korea, who was an ally of the United States. And that was, that was kind of an extension of the Cold War. All right. Or yeah, of the Cold War. And we see the same kind of thing happening in Southeast Asia with the French, except that the French were not really fighting against communism. They were fighting to maintain their empire in, in Southeast Asia. But what. Ha. And they, they, they were at war there for a long period of time. And it was devastating. It was very costly to the French, but they were able to convince the Americans that it was also part of this Cold War. And so the Americans started to back the French. And then when the French were finally driven from Southeast Asia, the Americans stepped in in their place. All right, so the, so really what we saw happening was that the United States assumed responsibility for a war, in theory, in favor of defending democracy, but what was in fact a colonial war that was trying to perpetuate the French Empire, essentially. Right. So from the point of view of the people of Vietnam, the American intervention wasn't an intervention that was going to save democracy. It was an intervention that was going to perpetuate colonialism. And so the Americans were unpopular basically with almost everybody in Vietnam. And so when we look at, for example, the history of the United States, when the United States goes to Vietnam, the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution was almost unanimously adopted by The House and the Senate. Right, but, and so we can see then that when Americans went to Vietnam, they went there with this idea that this was a good thing, that this is what they were, that was their mission to defend and spread democracy. But as time goes by, and not that much time, we start to realize, Americans start to realize that what the United States says it's doing is not what it's actually doing. The United States isn't defending democracy. The United States is just basically propping up a regime that can't survive. Okay. And what makes this even worse is that the United States relies on a draft, meaning that everybody that's graduating from high school, basically the 18 year olds and up, are subject to the draft. And it doesn't take long for them to realize that being drafted and being sent to Vietnam isn't patriotic, or at least it doesn't seem patriotic to them. And so there will be a mass anti war movement that will eventually lead to, to, to the whole population, eventually will become pretty much anti war. Okay, so, so now what we really see then is that the, the, the, the turmoil of the 1960s will lead to the, well, I. Carter calls it malaise. It will, will lead to the malaise of the 70s, meaning that, you know, with the, the loss of the Vietnam War and with the Watergate and you know, some of, some of the, the cultural things that happen in the early part of the 70s, America will lose its sense of confidence in itself in many ways. Right. So, so if we look back at the beginning of the 1960s, the Americans were convinced that they were at the forefront of history and they were the good guys and what they were doing was right. But by the time we get to the middle of the 1970s, Americans are questioning their role in the world. A lot of other people are as well. Right. And you can see that then in the national consciousness that Americans start to, to question whether or not this idea of defending liberty, expanding liberty, is something that Americans should be doing. And so if you are a young scholar at this period of time, you go to college and you get your graduate degree and you start to study, but you're now studying from a different ontological outlook from the one that Frederick Jackson Turner had. Because, because Frederick Jackson Turner lived with an ontology of the ever expanding progress of the United States. And now we're the, the scholars of the 1970s are going to be questioning that and, and now be. Have a more negative view of American expansion. And that becomes kind of manifest in a book that was written, it was published in, I think, 1983, and it's called the Legacy of Conquest by Patricia Limerick. And, and what this book does is, as it says here on the screen, rejects the Turner thesis and. And instead describes what happened in the west as a kind of a crime, that the Americans, driven by the profit motive, go into the west and they. They basically destroy things, ruin the environment, take, kill people, take over whatever they want. And. And it's all in the name of profit. Okay, so. So this is a very different outlook, obviously, than what Frederick Jackson Turner had. This is a much more critical outlook. And when what we see happen, this is kind of the first of a series of different works that come from this period of time that will question or try to, I guess you could say, reinterpret our understanding of what happened in the West. And so this group of historians will be called the Historians of the New West. The New West. Okay. It's not that the west actually changed. All the things that happened in the west have already happened. They don't change. But the way that we tell the story of what happened has changed. And what caused that change in the way that we tell the story? It wasn't that the events themselves changed. It was that we change. You guys follow, I'm saying, so what's ontological, then, is ontological on who we are, and then that informs how we're going to look at events that happened in the past and in the present. Okay, well, why is this important? Well, the reason why it's important is that we look at Frederick Jackson Turner's writing and we conclude that he is. His ontological outlook is that of an expanding American progress. And then we look at Limerick's writing and we say that her writing is also a manifestation, but this is of a kind of an America in decline in a way. Right. And, and, and so, so what that means then is if we try to understand why Jackson Wright Turner wrote what he wrote and why people in the 19th century did what they did, but we do it from an ontological outlook that's our own and not theirs. We can't understand it. We can't see it. We can only see our own judgment of it. Okay, so, so, so the challenge for historians is to essentially try to put ourselves in the shoes of the actors of the time. That doesn't excuse what they did. We can look at, for example, Thomas Jefferson and George Washington owning slaves. We can't condone them owning slaves, but we can understand why they thought it was okay to. To own slaves, not why we think it we don't think it's that way. We're not going to change our mind about that, but we can understand why they thought it was. Okay, you follow? So. So that's the importance of what's ontological. We have to understand the point of view of. Of where the author is coming from or where the actor is coming from. So now let's think about. Okay, well, Frederick Jackson Turner paints this picture of this American progress, expansion into the west, and Patricia Limerick paints this picture of American conquest, of American greed. And which one of these is true? And the answer is both of them are true to a certain extent, and both of them are false, but they're only true in their own ontological context, and they're. And they're false in. In a different ontological con. Context. So I want to spend a little bit of time now talking about some definitions, and that's kind of the. The thing that we've been aiming at today. And some of these I've already talked about. So historiography, the study of historical writing, or how do we. History of how we tell the story over time. Right, which I. Which we saw today. We saw Frederick Jackson Turner tell the story one way and, and we saw. Patricia, Let me tell it a different way. Okay, Ontology, an implicit organization of the world and its inhabitants. What does that mean? It's implied. Everybody knows it, but it's not stated. It doesn't have to be stated. Okay. Everybody just knows that. And that's something we'll have to actually wrestle with more as we go through the course, because it really only makes sense to understand what people are doing if we understand their point of view. Okay, then here's a couple of. A couple of terms that you're probably not familiar with. And these aren't really kind of common terms, but they're terms I found in a book that I like a lot. And it describes the challenge for historians, because we'll say, okay, there's historicity one and historicity two. Historicity one is what happened, and historicity two is what is said to have happened. All right, Obviously, they're not the same thing. What happened is what happened, but what is said to have happened is influenced by ontology. Right, so. So, for example, just not long ago, there was a Super bowl, and the super bowl was between Tampa Bay Buccaneers and the Kansas City Chiefs, and the. The Buccaneers won the super bowl and the score was 31 9, I think something like that. I don't really watch football, but I know this happened. Okay, so. So now. Now If I'm a Tampa Bay Buccaneers fan and you ask me about that game, I would say, well, that was a great game. I. I love that game because our guy, Tom Brady won another ring. And. And, you know, the Tampa Bay has now won the super bowl. And. And it's just, you know, a very positive experience for me. But if you ask somebody who's a fan of the Kansas City Chiefs, they'll say, that was a horrible game. I mean, it was awful. It just was. Was embarrassing. And. And I can't. I can't. It's almost hard to take. I almost want to cry or something like that. Right? And you can see what we've. What we've just done is that we've taken the same historicity one, and we've created two very different narratives, right? And what drives that narrative. What drives the narrative is our own ontological point of view. Am I a Chiefs fan or am I a Buccaneers fan? You follow what I'm saying? So this is something we have to think about whenever we're. We're considering what happened in the past, because we're going to look at, you know, secondary sources. I'll tell you what that is in a second, right? People who have interpreted what happened, like Frederick Jackson Turner interpreted what happened, or Patricia Limerick interpreted what happened, and they interpret it from their own ontological point of view. Okay? And on top of that, we have our own ontological point of view. So we might now think that Frederick Jackson Turner is full of beans and that Patricia Limerick is closer to the mark. That's our own ontological point of view, and we have to be able to recognize that as well. Okay? So. So that's historicity one. Historicity to the challenge of how you weigh what happened against what is said to have happened. All right? And then. And then finally, sources that. That historians use, generally texts, but can also be photographs and. And media, things like that. Right? But a primary source is an uninterpreted document, and a secondary source is an interpretation of a primary source. So. So in this case, we could say that primary source is the Declaration of Independence. The secondary source is my book telling you what the Declaration, Declaration of Independence means. Okay? So the primary source is. It's not interpreted, it just is what it is. And the secondary source is an interpretation of that document. Okay? We could also look, for example, at the two works we looked at today, Turner's thesis, which we could now, because it's well over 100 years old, consider to be a primary source. And Patricia Limerick, who is interpreting that document. Okay? So we could say, okay, the Turner thesis is a primary source and the Limerick book is an interpretation of that source. So Turner. Turner's thesis is a primary source, and Patricia Limerick's thesis or Patricia Limerick's book is a secondary source and interpretation of Turner's primary source. And so that's. That's the. The lecture, I guess you could say, for today. This is Professor Cox signing off. Live long and prospect.