C^The Washington Post 

      The Girl in the Kent 
                     State Photo 

     In 1970, an image of a dead protester immediately became iconic. But 
            what happened to the 14-year-old kneeling next to him? 

                       (John Filo/Getty Images) 
﻿By Patricia McCormick 

APRIL  19, 2021 

            ast May, when Mary Ann 
L Vecchio watched the video 
            of George Floyd’s dying 
            moments, she felt herself 
plummet through time and space —  to 
a day almost exactly 50 years earlier. 
On that afternoon in 1970, the world 
was just as riveted by an image that 
showed the life draining out of a 
young man on the ground, this one a 
black-and-white still photo. Mary Ann 
was at the center of that photo, her 
arms raised in anguish, begging for 
help. 

That photo, of her kneeling over the 
body of Kent State University student 
Jeffrey Miller, is one of the most 
important images of the 20th century. 
Taken by student photographer John 
Filo, it captures Mary Ann’s raw grief 
and disbelief at the realization that the 
nation’s soldiers had just fired at its 
own children. The Kent State Pieta, as 
it’s sometimes called, is one of those 
rare photos that fundamentally 
﻿changed the way we see ourselves and 
the world around us. Like the image of 
the solitary protester standing in front 
of a line of tanks in Tiananmen 
Square. Or the photo of Kim Phuc, the 
naked Vietnamese girl fleeing the 
napalm that has just incinerated her 
home. Or the image of Aylan Kurdi’s 
tiny, 3-year-old body facedown in the 
sand, he and his mother and brother 
having drowned while fleeing Syria. 

These images shocked our collective 
conscience —  and insisted that we 
look. But eventually we look away, 
unaware, or perhaps unwilling, to 
think about the suffering that went on 
long after the shutter has snapped — 
or of the cost to the human beings 
trapped inside those photos. “That 

picture hijacked my life,” says Mary 

Ann, now 65. “And 50 years later, I 
still haven’t really moved on.” 

            aryAnn Vecchio has 
M granted few interviews in 
            25 years, and as a child of 
the ’60s —  with her own entanglement 
with the FBI —  she’s still a bit wary. 
Partway through the first of what 
would go on to be a dozen interviews 
﻿over the phone, she stops abruptly. 
“Are you doing this on your own?” she 
asks. I’m freelancing, I tell her. Is that 
what she means? No, she wants to 
know if I’m working with a political 
party. Or law enforcement. “When 
you’ve lived the life I have,” she says, 
“you still worry that maybe people are 
after you.” She also tells me she’s 
researched me before agreeing to 
speak. “I’m a little FBI-ish myself, in a 
renegade way,” she says. “And I’m also 
still that hippie kid who always sees a 
rainbow.” 

Read more 

George Floyd died right before the 99th 
anniversary of the Tulsa Race Massacre. 
This photo essay spans the current protests 
—  but the quotes paired with them span 100 
years. 

2020 Photo Issue: Nine photographers 
capture a pandemic, an uprising and a 
country divided 

Before Kent State, she says, she was a 
free spirit. “I was the kid rolling down 
the river on a raft,” she recalls. “I was 
magic. In my childhood, I believed 
anything was possible.” But her home 
in Opa-locka, Fla., not far from Miami 
International Airport, where her 
father was a carpenter, could be 
﻿volatile. When her parents fought, she 
and her brothers and sisters would 
scatter, with Mary Ann hiding out in 
spots as far away as Miami Beach, 
some 15 miles from home. Soon she 
got in trouble —  smoking pot, skipping 
school. So in February 1970, when the 
police told Mary Ann, then 14, that 
they’d throw her in jail if they caught 
her playing hooky one more time, she 
took off —  in her bare feet. She says 
she wasn’t rebelling against her 
parents’ authority or seeking to join 
the antiwar movement: “I just wanted 
to be anywhere that wasn’t Opa- 
locka.” 
﻿Mary Ann Vecchio today. She is the 14-year-old kneeling in the Kent State photograph at top. (Jeffery A. Salter 
for The Washington Post) 

                       Hitchhiking her way across the 
                       country, Mary Ann slept in fields, at 
                       hamburger shacks, at crash pads, 
                       working here and there for money for 
                       food, which she shared with other kids 
                       who were also bumming around. 
                       Seeing the country, meeting new 
                       people, sharing music and the 
                       occasional joint —  the adventure had 
                       that feeling of magic from her 
                       childhood. Until, that is, she got to 
                       Kent State in northern Ohio, where, 
﻿on May 4, student protests erupted 
over President Richard Nixon’s 
decision to invade Cambodia. Mary 
Ann, in her jeans, white scarf and a 
pair of hippie sandals someone had 
given her, headed toward a field where 
students were gathered. On her way to 
join the protest, she struck up a 
conversation with a guy in bell¬ 
bottoms. The two of them watched as 
another student waved a black flag, 
taunting the National Guard troops 
who had been sent in after protesters 
had burned down the ROTC building 
two nights before. The soldiers 
seemed to retreat to a nearby hill; 
then, in the next 13 seconds, they fired 
more than 60 shots. 

Mary Ann dropped to the pavement 
and waited until the smoke had 
cleared to look up. Jeffrey Miller, the 
student she’d been talking to, was 
facedown on the ground; he’d been 
shot through the mouth. She knelt 
over his body as blood seeped onto the 
pavement. Other students walked by, 
too stunned or confused to look. 
“Doesn’t anyone see what just 
happened here?” she remembers 
crying. “Why is no one helping him?” 
﻿ As the soldiers approached, their guns 
 at the ready, she recalls asking them a 
 question that countless others across 
 the country would soon ask as well: 
 “Why did you do this?” 

 Nearby were more bodies. Allison 
 Krause was shot in the chest; William 
 Schroeder in the back. Sandy Scheuer, 
 who was just passing through the area 
 on her way to class, was struck by a 
 bullet that hit her jugular vein. Four 
 dead in Ohio. 

 “I would have 
 stayed anonymous 
 forever,” Mary Ann 
 says. “But that guy 
 from the 
 Indianapolis Star, 
 he knocked out my 
 future.” 

        ohnFilo was a senior at Kent 
        State in May 1970, a student 
J photographer who almost 
        missed out on covering the 
﻿protests because he’d been in the 
woods taking pictures of teaberry 
leaves for his senior thesis that 
weekend. All the other photographers 
on the student paper had assignments 
from out-of-town papers, so John, 21, 
was working in the newspaper office 
to help process their pictures. On his 
lunch break, he grabbed a camera and 
stepped outside. He went straight 
toward the action, where a student in 
the no man’s land between soldiers 
and students waved a black flag. John 
snapped a photo thinking, “Okay, I’ve 
got my picture.” A moment later, the 
soldiers formed a rifle line. “I put my 
camera to my eye and trained it on 
one of the soldiers,” he says. “He 
aimed toward me, and then his gun 
goes off. The next thing I know, a 
bullet hits a tree next to me and a 
chunk of bark flew off.” 

John dropped to the ground and 
waited out the 13 seconds of gunfire. 
When the smoke cleared, he stood and 
patted his arms and legs, checking to 
see if he’d been hit. “It was like slow 
motion. I just kept wondering, ‘How 
come I’m not shot?’ ” Then, not 10 feet 
away, he saw a body on the ground. 
﻿John was running out of film as he 
saw a girl kneel beside the body. “I 
knew the boy was dead, but I could tell 
she didn’t know,” he told me. “I could 
see something building in her, and all 
of a sudden she lets out this scream 
and I shoot. I shoot one more picture, 
and I’m out of film.” By the time he 
had reloaded his camera, the girl was 

gone. 

John remembers the soldiers ordering 
students who were lingering at the 
scene to disperse —  “or they’d shoot 
again.” A few moments later, soldiers 
using bullhorns announced that the 
university was closed. “They ordered 
everyone to go home.” 

Mary Ann just remembers running. 
She didn’t know anyone at Kent State; 
she’d known Miller for only 25 
minutes. But she saw National Guard 
troops herding students onto buses, so 
she followed in a daze. Some two 
hours later, when the bus arrived in 
Columbus, the soldiers told everyone 
to get off. Many of the students ran to 
waiting parents. Mary Ann stumbled 
around the streets of the city; she’d 
never even heard of Columbus. 
﻿Back on campus, students were yelling 
at John, calling him a pig, a vulture. 
John yelled back. “No one’s going to 
believe this happened,” he told them. 
“This,” he said, pointing to his camera, 
“is proof.” When he saw Guard troops 
cutting down electric lines, John ran 
to his car. After hiding the film inside 
a hubcap, he drove two hours to the 
office of his hometown newspaper in 
western Pennsylvania to process his 
film. As he watched the film develop, 
he knew he had something the world 
needed to see. 

When he called the Associated Press 
from the newsroom of the Valley Daily 
News of Tarentum, he was told the 
news service had plenty of Kent State 
photos coming in from its bureau in 
Akron, Ohio, and that its entire wire 
capacity was being used to transmit 
those photos. But when there was an 
unexpected break in the transmissions 
from Akron, John jumped on the wire 
and sent his photo. His image of the 
grieving girl ran on the front pages of 
newspapers all over the world the next 
day. The caption identified her simply 
as a “coed.” 
﻿                        I remember seeing the picture in my 
                       hometown paper. At 12, 1wondered if 
                       the nation’s adults were intent on 
                       killing their own children, in Vietnam 
                        and now at home. But Mary Ann 
                        cannot remember the first time she 
                        saw the photo; she has no memory of 
                       the moment when she became the 
                       most famous unknown person in the 
                       world. 

LEFT: Photographer John Filo in 2014. As a student, he won the Pulitzer Prize for his coverage of the 

Kent State shootings, includingthe iconic image featuring Mary Ann Vecchio. Today, he is the head of 

photography for CBS. (Taylor Hill/FilmMagic) RIGHT: Protesters gather around Jeffrey Miller. He and 

three other students were killed in the shootings. (John Filo/Getty Images) 

                                  he days after the shooting 
                                  went by in a haze for her. She 
                                  hitchhiked out of Columbus, 
﻿drifting west and sleeping wherever 
she could. She had heard she was 
wanted by the FBI, so she didn’t tell 
anyone who she was. She wound up at 
a crash pad in Indianapolis, thinking 
that if she could just get to California, 
she could start her life over again, but 
a kid at the house where she was 
staying recognized her and tipped off a 
reporter from the Indianapolis Star. 
Mary Ann, barely disguised in a 
granny gown and fake glasses, talked 
to the reporter, hoping he’d give her 
bus fare to California in exchange for 
her story. The reporter got his scoop, 
then called the authorities, who put 
her in juvenile detention as a runaway. 

“I would have stayed anonymous 
forever,” she says. “But that guy from 
the Indianapolis Star, he knocked out 
my future.” Within days, she was back 
home in Opa-locka. 

Many people refused to believe the 
nearly 6-foot-tall girl with the long, 
flowing hair and the mournful face 
was only 14. Her family received calls 
and letters calling her a drug addict, a 
tramp, a communist. The governor of 
Florida said she was “part of a 
﻿nationally organized conspiracy of 
professional agitators” that was 
“responsible for the students’ death.” 
While some people saw her as a 
symbol of the national conscience, 
some Kent State students expressed 
resentment about her fame, saying she 
wasn’t even a protester. 

Back in Kent, Ohio, local business 
owners ran an ad thanking the 
National Guard. Mail poured in to the 
mayor’s office, blaming “dirty 
hippies,” “longhairs” and “outside 
agitators” for the violence. Some Kent 
residents raised four fingers when 
they passed each other in the street, a 
silent signal that meant, “At least we 
got four of them.” Nixon issued a 
statement saying that the students’ 
actions had invited the tragedy. 
Privately, he called them “bums.” And 
a Gallup poll found that 58 percent of 
Americans blamed the students for 
their own deaths; only 11percent 
blamed the National Guard. 

The FBI also questioned John. They 
demanded his film, he says, and when 
he refused, he remembers them tailing 
him for nearly a week. He says his 
﻿phone rang nonstop with crank callers 
insisting that the photo was fake. He 
got hate mail, including a letter that, 
as he recalls, read, “I had a friend die 
in Vietnam. You’re next.” 

John was still reeling from his close 
call with the Guard when the 
Indianapolis Star ran the story 
identifying the subject of his photo not 
as a college student but as a teenage 
runaway. That, he says, “was a heavy 
weight to carry.” 

On “60 Minutes,” 
Morley Safer said 
Mary Ann “wasn’t a 
symbol of the 
tragedy of the 
Vietnam War. She 
wasn’t a symbol of 
anything.” 

        ackin Opa-locka, Mary Ann 
B couldn’t go to Royal Castle for 
        a burger without reporters 
and hecklers following her. Death 
﻿threats filled the Vecchio family 
mailbox. “It’s too bad it wasn’t you 
that was shot.” “What you need is a 
good beating until you bleed red.” “I 
hope you enjoyed sleeping with all 
those Negroes and dope fiends.” “The 
deaths of the Kent State four lies on 
the conscience of yourself.” At 14, she 
was a human flashpoint, her face on 
magazine covers, posters and 
handbills. The humor magazine 
National Lampoon ran a fake ad for a 
Kent State playset, complete with toy 
soldiers, protesters and “1 kneeling 
student.” And not that long ago, the 
Onion ran a satiric news story calling a 
loss by the Kent State basketball team 
a “massacre.” Mary Ann’s face is 
photoshopped onto the body of a 
cheerleader, kneeling over a fallen 
basketball player. 

Her father sold T-shirts with Mary 
Ann’s grieving image on the front. She 
signed the shirts —  and the occasional 
autograph —  still in a state of shock. 
“People thought we were getting rich, 
but we never had any money,” she 
says. “It sounds bad, but my dad did 
what he did for me. He was taking 
﻿care of me in the only way he knew 
how.” 

What the traumatized teenager didn’t 
get was counseling. It didn’t even 
occur to her. “I was too afraid,” she 
says. “He,” she notes, referring to 
Jeffrey Miller, the boy in the photo, 
“was a college student. I was just a 
runaway. I felt less than. And I felt like 
I did something dirty because that’s 
the way I was treated.” 

She ran away from home again and 
got caught, ending up in juvenile 
detention. “They tried to give me 
Thorazine,” she says. She ran away 
from there, too, was caught again and 
returned. But when she was sent back 
home, she recalls, the police followed 
her incessantly, arresting her for 
loitering, for smoking pot. “I was a 
mess, like I was trying to punch my 
way out of a paper bag,” she says. 

Later, in 1977, Mary Ann was profiled 
by “60 Minutes” as a “maladjusted 
kid.” For the segment, she read aloud 
from the hateful letters she’d received, 
which were spread out on her parents’ 
dining table. Morley Safer said she 
﻿“wasn’t a symbol of the tragedy of the 
Vietnam War. She wasn’t a symbol of 
anything.” Just a “14-year-old nobody 
hitchhiking from nowhere to 
nowhere.” He seemed, at least to me 
as I watched the segment recently, to 
take smug satisfaction in the trouble 
she had after Kent State, turning her 
into a national cautionary tale. 

“Everyone had a piece of me,” Mary 
Ann says. “And when everyone in the 
world thinks they know who you are, 
you don’t want to be who you are.” 

Mary Ann Vecchio, kneeling by the body of Jeffrey 
Miller after National Guard troops shot at protesters at 
Kent State University in Ohio in 1970. (John Filo/Getty 
Images) 
﻿         ohnFilo’s picture would win a 
         Pulitzer Prize. His photo, Time 
J magazine said, captured the 
         sense that the Vietnam War 
  had come home and “distilled that 
  feeling into a single image.” But he, 
  too, was haunted. “I felt very guilty,” 
  he says. “An arm’s length to my right, 
  a guy was shot. An arm’s length or two 
  to my left, that’s where Jeffrey Miller 
  was killed. I’m alive and I’m relatively 
  famous, and they’re dead.” And when 
  he read that the police had been 
  harassing Mary Ann, he felt 
  responsible. 

  Eventually, at age 22, Mary Ann took 
  off from Florida, moved to Las Vegas, 
  married and got a job in a casino 
  coffee shop. She was rarely mentioned 
  in news stories commemorating the 
  events of May 4, 1970. In May 1990, 
  she told the Orlando Sentinel that the 
  photograph had “really destroyed my 
  life.” Still, she said, she was proud of a 
 job where she wore a nicely pressed 
  blouse and skirt and where she’d built 
  a new life far removed from the 
  shooting. “Kent State has nothing to 
  do with my life,” she said. 
﻿By that time, she’d also learned it was 
risky to tell people that she was the 
girl in the iconic photo. “The less I 
said, the safer I felt,” she recalls. And 
while she took pride in her job and the 
stability she’d achieved, underneath 
she carried a sadness about the way 
her life had turned out. “My life was 
already upside-down by the time of 
Kent State, but with some different 
guidance, maybe I could have made 
something of myself,” she says. 
“Maybe I could’ve done something 
good with my life. That’s the damage, 
when you don’t get to be who you were 
going to be.” 

Meanwhile, John went on to have a 
successful career as a photographer. 
(Today he’s the head of photography 
for CBS.) He says that not a day went 

by that he didn’t think about the Kent 
State students —  or Mary Ann. 
Sometimes he had nightmares about 
her. When he became a father and 
looked in his daughter’s eyes, he saw 
Mary Ann’s eyes. He tortured himself 
by wondering how he’d feel if someone 
had taken his daughter’s photo in such 
a vulnerable moment. “I thought 
about reaching out to her many 
﻿times,” he says. “But I figured she 
hated me.” 

It was Gregory Payne, a professor at 
Emerson College and author of 
“Mayday, Kent State,” who had an 
idea that he thought might help them 
both. In 1995he organized a 25-year 
retrospective on Kent State and 
Mississippi’s Jackson State, where 
students had been shot and killed by 
police around the same time. He 
invited both Mary Ann and John to 
attend. “Mary Ann was open to the 
idea, but John wasn’t initially,” Payne 
says. “He always felt terrible about 
trapping her in that picture, and he’d 
read that she said it ruined her life.” 
The day before they were to meet, 
Payne recalls, he asked Mary Ann 
what she was going to say to John. 
“She said she had no idea.” 

“I was kind of mad at [John] for a long 

time,” Mary Ann says. “He’s lucky. 
He’s done very well. He’s got a nice 
house. He’s got everything. He got the 
pony.” She laughs at that. “I got the 
crap.” 
﻿John says he “dreaded ever meeting 
Mary Ann,” but he accepted Payne’s 
invitation to the retrospective, unsure, 
until the last minute, if he would go 
through with it. When Payne brought 
the two of them together for a private 
meeting before the opening ceremony, 
no one knew what to expect. “John 
looked so scared,” Payne says. But 
Mary Ann surprised everyone. “I saw 
the anguish in his eyes,” she says of 
John, “and, you know, I felt sorry for 
him.” She smiled, took his hand and 
hugged him. They both cried. 

Even though they’d never before met, 
Mary Ann says that she and John had 
the instant bond of a pair of old army 
buddies. “It was kind of a war,” she 
says. And neither of them had ever 
really been recognized as among the 
casualties. Kent State had haunted 
them both, from opposite ends of the 
lens. 

Later that day, as Mary Ann spoke to 
the assembled group about the trauma 
of the Kent State shootings, John had 
an epiphany about the power of his 
photo. “It was because she was 14, 
because of her youth, that she ran to 
﻿help, that she ran to do something. 
There were other people, 18, 19, 20 
years old, who didn’t get close to the 
body. She did because she was a kid. 
She was a kid reacting to the horror in 
front of her. Had she not been 14, the 
picture wouldn’t have had the impact 
it did.” 

After the retrospective, John gave her 
a signed copy of the photo. The 
inscription: “For the courageous Mary 
Ann Vecchio, I cannot fathom how 
this photograph affected your life. I’m 
proud to call you a friend.” 

The public glare 
defined her as 
someone she never 
was. Now she’s who 
she wants to be. 

           aryAnn lived in Las Vegas 
M for nearly 20 years, moving 
           up from her job in the 
coffee shop to the casino floor, where 
she had the keys to pay out the slot 
machine jackpots. She says she 
﻿dreamed of being a lawyer. But 
something told her, “Don’t get too 
successful, don’t get too visible. Don’t 
be too happy.” Hiding was much safer, 
she says. 

In 2001, however, she took the story 
of her life back into her own hands. 
She had earned a high school diploma 
at the age of 39; now in her mid-4os, 
she was ready to study for a career in 
health. She also ended an unhappy 
marriage and started over again by 
returning to Florida. She bought a 24- 
foot camper, worked full time at the 
Trump Spa at Doral, enrolled at 
nearby Miami Dade Community 
College and studied to be a respiratory 
therapist. Between shifts and classes 
she spent time nursing her dying 
mother. 

“Everybody at the Doral loved Mary 
Ann,” says longtime friend Charlotte 
Brewer, 85. “She has this very caring 
personality.” Still, Mary Ann didn’t tell 
her about the photo until it popped up 
on Charlotte’s phone one day. “That’s 
me,” Mary Ann said. At first Charlotte 
couldn’t believe it, but she soon 
understood: The girl who ran to help 
﻿an injured student at Kent State was 
the same person who saw her massage 
work as healing treatments for her 
clients and who was training to help 
patients with respiratory problems. 
Charlotte and her fellow massage 
therapists were so happy to see Mary 
Ann on a new professional path, they 
took her out to lunch after she passed 
each course. “Maybe that’s why I got 
such good grades,” Mary Ann says. 

After school, the woman who perhaps 
had been the most visible symbol of 
protest against the Vietnam War 
worked at the Miami VA hospital, 
where she cared for men who’d served 
in that war. But she never told them 
she was the girl from the Kent State 
photo. Sometimes, she says, she 
wanted to tell the veterans who she 
was so she could explain that the 
protesters weren’t anti-soldier, just 
antiwar, and that they did what they 
did to bring soldiers home. Instead, 
she operated on a “no-need-to-know 
policy.” She wanted “to be in the vets’ 
shoes,” she says. “I had to make a 
connection on a spiritual level.” 
﻿By working with veterans, she learned 
about resilience and came to 
understand what being in the line of 
fire had done to her. “I tried to hide 
my shell-shockedness from them,” she 
says, but she saw ways in which they 
were traumatized that echoed some of 
her own behaviors. “I’m very 
positional,” she says. “Wherever I go, I 
sit with my back to the wall so I can 
see what’s coming in the front door.” 

Mary Ann is retired now —  she didn’t 
remarry or have children —  and leads 
a quiet life, growing avocados and 
oranges on a small plot at the edge of 
the Florida Everglades. Payne, who 
keeps in regular touch with her and 
has invited her to speak to his classes 
at Emerson, credits her “incredibly 
strong spirit” for her survival. “She 
also still has that unaffected purity,” 
he says. “That’s what you saw in the 
photo on May 4th. And that’s still who 
she is.” 

Charlotte says Mary Ann is more like a 
neighborhood sprite. She pops in to 
see their older neighbors, bathing 
them and delivering home-cooked 
meals. She gets offers to work for pay, 
﻿but she prefers to “be that surprise 
person that shows up with banana 
bread.” 

Last May, however, when she watched 
the video of George Floyd’s death, she 
was so shaken, it was as if the 
electronic scrim of her TV had 
dissolved. She jumped off her couch 
and yelled at the crowd in the video, 
“Why is no one helping him?” She 
sobs as she describes that moment to 
me. “Doesn’t anyone see what’s going 
on?” 

“Mary Ann,” I say. “It seems to me 
that you’re still that girl in the photo, 
you’re still that girl saying, ‘Doesn’t 
anyone see what’s happening here?”’ 

She stops crying abruptly. “But it’s 
been 50 years,” she says. “Why can’t I 
move on?” 

What would it take to move on? I ask. 

“Maybe if I do some good for the 
planet,” she says. She tells me that she 
does small, secret acts of charity every 
weekend, when she goes “undercover” 
to the Walmart parking lot near her 
home and leaves canned foods, staples 
﻿and her homegrown avocados in an 
empty shopping cart for someone to 
discover. “I feel like I need to do 
something good,” she says, crying 

again. 

You’ve already done something 
profoundly good, I tell her. “In that 
moment when you knelt over Jeffrey 
Miller’s body,” I say, “you expressed 
the grief and horror that so many 
people were feeling. You helped end 
the Vietnam War.” 

“You can say that,” she says, “but I 
can’t feel it.” 
﻿Today, Mary Ann Vecchio is retired in Florida. No one follows her or sends her hate mail, though once in a 
while she receives an autograph request. (Jeffery A. Salter for The Washington Post) 

                                 owadays,the girl who wanted 
                       N to be anywhere but Opa-locka 
                                 lives not far from there. No 
                       one knows her as the girl from the 
                       photo. No one follows her or sends her 
                       hate mail, though once in a while she 
                       finds an autograph request with a 
                       faraway address in her mailbox. 
                       Sometimes students find her online 
                       and send her letters saying they read 
                       about her in their history books. This 
                       cracks her up. “I’m a living person,” 
﻿she says with a laugh. “And I’m in a 
history book! Not many people can say 
that.” 

For me, it’s hard now not to look at 
that photo and see a 14-year-old girl, 
unaware of how that single moment 
will shape her entire life. She’ll 
become a public figure —  as a minor — 
with no consent and no control over 
her image or her reputation. Well 
before there’s such a concept as 
victim-blaming, before social media or 
Us Weekly, she’ll become an object of 
national fascination —  a target for 
some, a footnote in history to others. 
She’ll be the subject of a photo known 
the world over, but never really known 
as a person. 

And yet, she eventually defied the 
narrative that was written for her. She 
built a new life on her own terms. Far 
from the public glare that defined her 
as someone she never was, she’s now 
who she wants to be: someone whose 
life is both private and purposeful. 
And on weekends, as she roams the 
Walmart parking lot near her home, 
leaving gifts for strangers, it’s possible 
to see that 14-year-old girl before the 
﻿shutter is snapped, that kid who 
thinks she’s magic. 

Patricia McCormick is a two-time 
National Book Award finalist. She 
writes about the effects of trauma on 
young people. 

Design by Christian Font. Photo 
editing by Dudley M. Brooks. 
