Let us be lovers we'll marry our fortunes together I've got some real real estate here in my bag so we bought a pack of cigarettes and Mrs. Magnifies and we walked off to look for America Capri boarded a great Michigan Seems like a dream to me now it took me four days to hit tack from Saginaw and I've come to look for America Laughing on the bus Playing games with the faith she said the man in the ca was a spy I said, be careful his bow tie is really a camera Toss me a cigarette I think there's one in my raincoat we smoked the last one an hour ago so I looked at the scenery she read a magazine and the moon goes over and over Kathy, I'm lost I said though I knew she was sleeping I went to the baking and I don't know why Counting the car God. You guys like my song? It's kind of a little slow for you guys, probably, but. So does anybody want to guess why I played that song today? I have no clue. What about. What are we discussing? What's the name of the book? The Soul of America. The Soul of America. What are we doing? Aren't we trying to find America? We're off to look the history of it. Well, not just the history of it, but even the soul of it, right? What does it mean to be an American? That's the question we're trying to. To answer here. What do you guys think? Questions? Comments? Did you guys. You guys watched the video, right? I, I was amazed yesterday morning. I, I logged in and like, nobody had answered the. The discussion. But then I looked this morning and it's all been filled out, so you guys are great. Any questions or comments? What did you think about the video? I actually like the video. What did you like about it? I liked how it wasn't just like, just the events. You know, it talked about interviews with people that actually were there, and then everyday life, stuff like that. They talked about politics, talked about, like, the Great Depression, racial tensions, that kind of thing. It was very diverse. Is enjoyable, right? Well, you know, it was actually. What I found is that if I was going to give a lecture on the 20s, I would touch on all those subjects that were touched on there. But you get to see, you know, a lot of the media hear the songs and, and, and I think the most valuable thing about the video was that we get to hear from people that actually lived then, you know, and we look at them while they're on this TV show and they're old Right. But they're talking about when they were your age. They were talking about when they were young, you know, and so I, I think that gives us a great insight into life during that period of time. You follow? I'm saying history is not just a bunch of names and dates in a book. Right. It's actually, how did people live at the time? Let me just ask you this. Did you see. Did. Did watching the video help you to contextualize the book or vice versa? The chapters in the book that we read, I'd say they help tremendously. Because. Because, well, I just. I'm more of a visual learner and, you know, having personal anecdotes spoken to me rather than me reading them from their perspective versus what my imagination could only be is a little bit more understandable. Okay. What I'm really thinking about. I appreciate that, Morris. What I'm really thinking about, though, is the book that we just read for today, the Soul of America. The two chapters, which are basically about the 20s in America. Did you see a connection between the two? Could you make connections between the two? Oh, oh, yeah. See, I remember the, the ones that we just read. It was like Teddy Roosevelt and the Progressive era and the fight for. For more livable wages and the technological era where it was prosperous. So I guess, like, the similarities are just between the fight that people or the fight that the working class had, or the people that the working class had fought was the. Was the upper class. I guess that was a similarity between the book and the. And the video that we watched. Okay, you guys, keep in mind that one of the chapters talks about the, the rise of the second KKK and, and how we. We actually saw that in the video. The, the KKK and the race relations and things like that. Immigration. Let's go ahead. Any questions, comments? Let's go ahead and do this. Let's go ahead and go through the questions. And then I did want to point out to you before we go, can you guys see the screen now? You can see the chapters from Canvas? Yes. Okay, can you see the syllabus now? Okay, so. So here's where we are today. And we're going to discuss the Meacham chapters. And then on Monday, there's going to be a lecture about the New Deal. And also there's a. There's another online discussion about another video called we have a Plan, which there's a link on Canvas, and it is about California during the Depression. So I would really like for you guys to have watched the movie and answered the questions. Before we start on Monday and then Wednesday, we're gonna talk about World War II. The following week, we're gonna have discussion of the book or parts of the book, the Good War that you guys had to buy from Studs Terkel. And then we're going to have our midterm exam. And then after that, spring break. Okay, questions? Comments? So. So the time is passing like a runaway train, and we'll be at the end before you even know it. Okay, now let's go to these questions. First one, let's just dive right in. On page 75. Meacham writes, TR's capacity to stand on some occasions for equality and for openness and in others, to argue that it was a destiny of the Anglo Saxon peoples to rule the world was a particular example of a more universal American inconsistency. Give an example about TR that illustrates this inconsistency. So, so what is the inconsistency? Is it that he, like, his morals are conflicted, but are they really conflicted? Do you. Does he seem like a conflicted person to you? No, no. Seem conflicted, but like, he, he's for, like, the idea of, like, liberty and all that stuff. At the same time, he wants to push his ideology and his. More than others. Right? So basically he's. He. He believes very much in equality and everybody is equal. But at the same time, he. He says that. That it was. It's the destiny essentially of the Anglo Saxon race to rule the world. Right. So what was the kind of phrase that we used to define that in our themes? The destiny of the Anglo Saxon peoples to rule the world. The mission. Manifest destiny. Manifest destiny. And then when we talked about imperialism, there was a British authority who wrote a poem that was named what you guys remember, that was trying to get the Americans to adopt imperialism. Rudyard Kipling wrote the White Man's Burden. Remember that? What is. What is the white man's burden? To help other people that are white. To do what? To civilize them. All right, so that implies what? That white people are the most civilized and that other people that are not white are not as civilized, but they can be civilized. And it's the duty of the. The Anglo Saxon peoples, which includes the Americans, to civilize these uncivilized, different colored skin people. Right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? All right, so. So now, so what we see then is that on the one hand, tr. Well, an example of the inconsistency. Because does anybody. Can anybody think about one place where TR actually illustrated this inconsistency? It's actually on the page. It's actually on the same page. Was it like, he denied any questions regarding the taking over of Native American lands, but. Exactly. Okay, go ahead. He was, like, mocking the fact that it was, like, a sentimental sort of thing where, like, they wanted to give back the land or whatever. Right, exactly. So. So doesn't it seem that TR's attitude toward that would be represented in that painting that I showed you, American Progress. Remember that one? Yes. With the. With the white. The. The blonde blimp floating across the plains. And. And what was happening to the Indians? They were running away. We're slinking off into the darkness. And was that a good thing? Yes, because it was good for us. Yeah, it was good for them, too, because they were giving way to American progress. Right. They're making way for American progress. Yeah. So. So this is a. If we were to think about the word. Well, let's just leave it at that for now. But it's really. We see this kind of dual thought coming from the same person. Do. Do we see anything like that happening in today's America where. Where people say, yeah, we're all equal, and yet we act in ways that are. That show some kind of a bias? Definitely, yeah. Where. Where would we still very. We're still very imperialistic when it comes to other nations. Okay. Third World, to a certain extent. You will notice that everywhere that the United States has imposed its will is our countries where the people aren't white. Right. Yeah. Okay. That's one thing. Right. But then the other thing, though, is think about, in terms of. On the one hand, we all view ourselves as equal, but. But on the other hand, we sometimes act as if we're not equal. Have you ever. Have you seen anything like that? Have you ever heard of, like, inherent bias? Inherent bias? What is that? I've heard of it, but I've actually, like. I'm not. I can't do the definition. Okay. Inherent bias is that you have a bias that's built in that you don't really recognize is there. And. And that bias manifests itself in little actions and attitudes that are. What's the word I'm looking for? That. That are offensive to other people or are harmful to other people, but you don't realize that you're doing it. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Yeah. So do you think that's something that maybe Americans practice today? Yeah, definitely. So, like, the ontology. Okay, you're. You're right on that. But now let's think. What would be a Good example of where Americans think that we, we've achieved equality, but we actually. That. But there's evidence that we actually haven't. Maybe, like with, with the wage gap between men and women's pays. Okay. We feel like we're all equal now. And like. But it's still very apparent that, like, men are being paid more than women still. Right, exactly. So that's one example. Right. So we think that we're all equal, but we're, we still. There is still what they call the glass ceiling where women can't, Women can't break the glass ceiling. I don't know if you guys remember, in 2016 election, Hillary thought she was going to win, and so she rented this big room in a New New York hotel that had a glass ceiling, but she wasn't able to break it that night. So anyway, let's move on. Any questions or comments about that? Okay. As illustrated on page 78 and other places, TR wrote, basic human rights as imagined by Jefferson included the rights of the worker to a living wage, to reasonable hours of labor, to decent working and living conditions, and to freedom of thought and speech and industrial representation. Okay. Keeping in mind what we've learned about the excesses of the Gilded Age, contextualize TR's position in the framework of the progressive movement. All right, so first off, what were the excesses of the Gilded Age? What was the Gilded Age? I want more than two or three people answering questions. Industrialization. Well, yeah, but there's a particular age that we talked about that has to do with industrialization. But what era was that in the United States? The Gilded Age. 1920s? No, it's earlier than that. The beginning of the 1900s. Even earlier than that. Post Civil War. Right. It was like the 1880s. 1890s. Right. Okay, construction. 1870s. And why did they call it gilded? Why was it gilded? What is something gilded? It's like a, a layer of gold around it, but hollow on the inside. It could be, or it could be like gold paint on a, on a wooden chair or something like that. Right, okay, so, so basically then what it, it's, it's saying is that there's, there's a distance between the, the, the, the, the view and the reality. There's a difference between the vision and the reality. And the vision is of this opulence and prosperity. But the reality is what? That working conditions are like, really bad and people have to work long hours and stuff like that. Right. So that there's a huge amount of income inequality and oppression of the working classes and Those sorts of things. Right. So now the response of the Americans to the Gilded Age was what? Do you guys remember? We talked about this when we talked about progressivism. We said there were three different basic responses. One was communism, one was Social Darwinism, and one was positivism. Yeah. And so communism, what was its basic idea? We all get the same thing. Right? We all get the same thing because the problem is that the bourgeoisie owns the means of production and therefore they are able to oppress the working classes by getting the surplus and paying the working classes only a subsistence wage. So Marxist solution was let's just seize the means of production from. From the bourgeoisie and then we'll be able to share everything in common. Right. And then. And then Social Darwinism, what was that again? Those who can, like, produce, like live and those who can't die. Yeah. Let them die. Right, okay. And. But communism was never popular in America because we like stuff. And Social Darwinism turns out not to be that popular because does, does it really solve the problem if you just say, well, we're not going to do anything about poor people, just let them die? Isn't that the same with, like, capitalism? Well, yeah, that in. Yeah, exactly that. That it creates social unrest. Right. So Americans don't really go for that. So positivism. Do you guys remember what that was? They let, like, scientists become political and power. Exactly that. Society is managed by scientists. It's managed scientifically and it's managed by scientists. Right. And. And Americans wouldn't have gone necessarily for positivism because it's inherently anti democratic. You can't really be elected a scientist. Right. You have to study and that sort of thing. But it does become the American solution because it's enacted through electoral means through the ballot box. So now let's think then, what were the problems that the progressives were trying to solve? What were they trying to provide for workers? Living wages. A living wage. What else? Come on, you guys. Smaller work days, reasonable hours of labor. What else? Decent working and living conditions. And what else? Freedom of thought and speech and industrial representation. What does that mean? Labor unions. Right, labor unions. Okay, so now, so these are all progressive ideas. Right? But now who's T.R. theodore Roosevelt. Right. Tell me about him. Tell me about his politics. Is he Republican or Democrat? He was against big business, right? He was against. He wasn't against big business. He was against monopolies of big business. Right? Yeah. He said. He. The book said he hated capitalist excesses. Right, exactly. That. He, he thought it was perfectly all right for People to make all kinds of money, but they shouldn't be making it on the backs of the poor, but they, they should be providing all these different things to the, the workers. Okay, but, but now again, I asked the question, was he a Republican or a Democrat? He was a Republican. Exactly. And now if we think about these ideas today, do these ideas seem like liberal or conservative ideas? It seems more liberal, yeah. All right, so, so do we think of, do we then think of the Republican Party as the Liberal party? Is the Republican Party the pro Labor Party, more of the capitalists now? Right. I'm talking about now today. Right, right. So today, are they, are they the Repo. Are they the Liberal party or the Conservative Party? Are they the pro Labor Party Republicans? Are the conservative Party today. Right. Are they for or against unions? Against. Against. Because they represent the business interests. Right. Okay. So, so now here's what we want to keep in mind here, and this is an illustration of something I talked about earlier in the course, and that is that TR is a Republican and yet his views are liberal. Right. And really what. The reason why, the reason why things change is because of TR because there was a, there was a divide in the Republican Party over whether they should be the party of reform or the party of big business. Up to this time, they had been both. But William Howard Taft, who succeeded Roosevelt in the presidency, was in favor of big business to the detriment of workers. And so Roosevelt challenged him. He didn't get the Republican nomination in 1912, and as a result, he ran on third party ticket, the Progressive Party, otherwise known as the Bull Moose Party. And the result was that it split the Republican vote and the Democrats won the election. Woodrow Wilson, I think I've mentioned that before. Right. Okay. So Woodrow Wilson wins the presidency. But one of the things that was significant about the 1912 election was the Democratic Party adopted the platform of the Progressive Party. So from that point on, then, the Democratic Party is the Progressive Party. You follow what I'm saying? Questions, comments. And that's why when we think about liberal and conservative today in terms of social issues, we think about Democrats as liberals and Republicans as conservatives, generally speaking. Right? You guys follow. I'm saying questions, Comments. All right, next one. If we look at page 81, actually, I kind of. This is kind of badly written question, because on page 81, I gotta go all the way back here, we'll notice that Hamilton and Washington have different views on immigration. So let me just read here if I can get back there again. Let me just read here on page 81. Writing in 1783, George Washington had articulated that we think, we like to think of as American. Excuse me, let me start over. Writing in 1783, George Washington had articulated what we like to think of as the American way of on such things. Quote, the bosom of America is open to receive not only the opulent and respectable stranger, but the oppressed and persecuted of all nations and religions. End quote. All right, and then do you guys remember what Alexander Hamilton said about immigration? He thought we were letting like too many immigrants in. Right. And, and if we let in too many foreigners, what would happen? They would change like our nation into theirs. Kind of. They would corrupt our. Yeah, our nation diagram. I guess so. So we see then that Alexander Hamilton associates being American with being Anglo Saxon. Right. Does that make sense? Do you guys see that? That if we let French people and German people and Irish people, God forbid, and you know, we let all those people in here, they're going to ruin our culture, they'll ruin our country because our country comes from being. Our superiority comes from being Anglo Saxon. That makes sense because I'm not saying it makes sense, but that's what they think. Right, you guys are with me. Questions. Okay, now let's go ahead. I was just agreeing. Okay, well, so now let's look on page. Where did I see that at page 85. Right. This is a quote by T.R. americanism is a question of spirit, conviction and purpose, not of creed or birthplace. The politician who bids for the Irish or German vote or the Irishman or German who votes as an Irishman or German is despicable for all citizens of this Commonwealth should vote solely as Americans. But he is not a whit less despicable than the voter who votes against a good American merely because that American happens to have been born in Ireland or Germany, a Scandinavian, a German or an Irishman who has really become an American, has the right to stand on exactly the same footing as any native born citizen in the land and is just as much entitled to the friendship and support, social and political of his neighbors. All right, so having said that, then what does TR say about immigration? Is it a good thing or a bad thing? This is a good thing. As long as they reject like sort of their country of origin and become American. Okay, so, so yeah, exactly. What does it mean to become an American then? I mean really, this is our ideals. Exactly. And what are our ideals? Democracy. All those things. Okay. Is it just enough to do to adopt our ideals? No, you kind of have to like think as like an American would Okay, so how does an American think. Vote. Yeah, vote in, like, the interest of the American people, of democracy and stuff like that. All right, so let's think about it in more concrete terms. Right? Could you be. Could you agree with the ideals of the American system as stated in the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, the Bill of Rights, and the Gettysburg Address, and, and be an American even if you didn't speak English? Yeah, according to tr. No, not according to tr, because what TR would say, well, you got to speak English. Americans speak English. Right. You follow what I'm saying here? Yeah. Okay, so. So he's, he's saying that immigration is a good thing, but only if it ends up making Americans. And then he defines an American as somebody that speaks English and, and, well, first off, buys into the ideals, but also speaks English and acts like an American and, and lives like an American, which it so happens to be white Anglo Saxon Protestantism, essentially. Right. You see what I'm saying? So what he's saying is that, yeah, it's a melting pot, but what comes out of that melting pot is an American, American culture that looks like white Anglo Saxon Protestantism. Does that make sense to you guys? Questions? Comments? Okay. All right, we'll just keep that in mind for here for a few minutes. Okay, let's talk. Which. Which of these two views, Hamilton's view or TR's view, which one do you think is more American? I guess it's hard to say because they're both trying to preserve the ideals of the American right, but American is based off of democracy and letting or accepting anyone right. That is willing to devote their life to America. So I guess, like tr. I guess, in my opinion. All right, who else? That's all I'm asking for right now is your opinion. There isn't any right answer or I should say I agree. Go ahead. I'm sorry, Joseph, Sorry. I. I agree that TR's view, like, we have the Statue of Liberty, like, I think America is really about welcoming in people from other countries and cultures and giving them the chance to, you know, like, become an American. Okay, all right, good questions. Comments? I mean, I don't think, like, either one of them is, like. Right. It's a question like, if there's which one's more right. Well, it's not really like, what's who's more right. It's which one is American. Keep in mind that, that the book that Meacham is writing is, is talking about the battle for our better angels. So the question I think that we need to ask Is, does this. Does one side appeal more to our better angels than the other? So the one side is exclusive. We've got a good thing going here. We don't screw it up by letting other people in. Right. And the other one is inclusive, saying, we should let all these other people in, and that would make us even better. Which one do you think actually encapsulates or appeals to the better angels of our nature? The latter. Yeah, I. I think that that would be a common. That would be a common view, but it's not everybody's view. There's a lot of people say, no, forget about those other people. Close the borders, don't let anybody else in. Right. Does that seem like it appeals to our better nature, our better angels? Okay. But a lot of people buy it, obviously. Okay. All right, so let's move on. Unless there's any other comment or question about that. Okay, we'll move on then. TR held many views about race that would today be considered outside accepted social thought. Scholar Thomas G. Dyer is quoted on page 89 of writing. Although Roosevelt may have been a moderating force in an age of high racism, he nevertheless harbored strong feelings about the inferiority of blacks, feelings which suggest the pervasiveness of racism and the harsh character of racial moderation in turn of the century America. Okay, so contextualize TR's moderation in terms of our discussions about the importance of understanding what is ontological in studying the past. Okay, so what does TR's moderation, first off, what does it mean? What, describe his moderation, his racial moderation? Well, if you think about it, this was the late 1800s, right? And that was a Jordan, you know, I suppose, racist time. Right. So. And Teddy Roosevelt, or. Yeah, Teddy Roosevelt, he was a. He was, I guess, revolutionary in his. And how he was. Right, so he was. He would be racist in today's time, but not for his time, you know. Okay, so that's that moderating influence, then. The moderating influence is that on the one hand, you have a culture that's incredibly racist, and then you have a man who's able to. To do things like invite Booker T. Washington to dinner at the White House. Right. Okay. But that man still is. Still carries the ideas of the. Of the country. So when we talk about what's ontological, where do we see that here? Was. Was. Was TR's racism ontological? I'd say so, because, yeah, at his time, it's like, it's normal to have his thoughts concerning racism. That's what everybody thinks. Everybody knows that you know, it was interesting. It was like last year, I think you guys have all heard of. Who's the guy who did the photographs in Yosemite? The photographer. I can't remember his name now. Anyway, very famous photographer, did all black and white, so. Of Yosemite. And he was. He's the kind of the, the inspiration of the Sierra Club, right? Which is a pretty liberal organization. And then they come to find out that he was a racist. Right? Of course, he lived in the 1890s. Okay, so. So the. The Sierra Club's all up in arms about, well, what should we do? Because, like, he's our hero, but. But he's also a racist, right? And the question that I always bring up is that essentially, or the point of view, I guess, that I always think of is that everybody was racist in the 1890s. You can't cancel everybody because they were racist. Right? Do you follow what I'm saying? It doesn't mean it was right that they were racist, but they were. That's just the way the culture was at the time. And so if we as historians look at TR and say, oh, my God, he was racist, let's cancel him, then we won't understand anything about the past, will we? You follow what I'm saying? So we're not excusing his racism, but we're saying this was something that we would have expected at this time. What we would not have expected would be somebody who was openly pro black in American politics in the late 19th century. Right? That would not be something that would happen. That person wouldn't go anywhere. I mean, look what happened when, when, when T.R. invited Booker T. Washington to dinner at the White House. They. They. The one newspaper article said that he was going to carry the stink of that coon to his grave. Do you guys remember that? I mean, that was the, the era that he lived in, okay? And in to be not racist was to not have a political career. Okay. All right. Questions? Comments? Let's think about this then. Because when we say, okay, TR's racism was ontological, but that he actually did actions that challenged the ontology of the time, like inviting Booker T. Washington to dinner at the White House, what does that tell us about Meacham's bigger argument of the battle for our better nature, better angels? Are you asking what is. Oh, sorry. I was gonna ask. No, you can go ahead. Sorry. Did you mean, like, what. What does that mean for the battle for better angels? Like him inviting him? Well, what I mean is, what is it? What? The question is, how does this kind of paradox of TR's views fit into the argument about the battle for our better nature? Better, better angels. Right. The battle for our better angels means what. What is. What is the battle? I guess that this is like how. This is TR's battle with his better angels, where the. Where his, I guess, bad angel is the I or the racist ideals. And this good angel is. Is promoting equality for all within America. Right. Which is opposing what was considered normal at the time, which is those racist ideals. So it's trying to separate himself from the ubiquitous. Right. But what does this tell us about the battle? You're absolutely right. What does it tell us about the battle? Is it a battle that can be won? Can we say, okay, we've achieved victory in this battle? Yeah, I guess. I guess you can, like, if for yourself, you know. Well, I'm talking about as American, if we have. If we have better angels, can we ever say that we have finally met them and we're there? We don't have any further to go? No, no. I think we can always strive for more progress. All right, so when we see then this. This movement of TR away from the. The vicious racism of the time, doesn't that tell us something about the battle for our better angels? What does it tell us? I think it shows that, like, we're. We are progressing. You know, it's a long. There is progress being made because the ontological perspective at the time was very contrary to that. Right. But the operative phrase here is that it's ongoing. It's not something that can be won in a day. It's something that has to continue to be striven for. How's that? You like that? I think I conjugated that verb correctly. Okay, any questions or comments about that? Page 103. After discussion of the ratification of the 19th Amendment, Meacham notes that the triumph of women's suffrage was brought about by a century and a half of effort by those without office. It is often true that Americans look for leadership from elected officials. Reflect upon the power inherent in the people of a democracy. What is the nature of that power? Do you think that power can be or is being used today for change? Explain. All right, so let's think about the women's suffrage movement. Somebody tell me about that. When did women start agitating for the right to vote? 1880s. Right around there. No, it's even. It was earlier. It was in the 1830s. The Seneca Falls. Yeah. So it was. It was 150 years before they actually got the right to vote. Right. So how could they, how could they get the right to vote? How did they, what did they do that made it finally possible for them to have the right to vote? Was it, didn't they inspire President Woodrow Wilson first to get, like, the president on this, on their side for the first time? Okay, but that was real close to the passage of the amendment. Right? What about before that? Help pass, like, the right for African Americans to vote. And that kind of pushed it through. Okay, so they were, they were, they were actually instrumental in, in the right. In the passage of the 14th, 14th and 15th amendments. Right. But going beyond that, though, I mean, what did they do? They couldn't vote. So what kind of influence did they have protesting demonstrations and stuff like that? Right, so. So they went out in the streets and they had one demonstration and then they passed the law, right? No, no, it was a long struggle. Right. But they persisted. Just like McConnell said about Elizabeth Warren. She persisted. Right. And. And eventually they got the right to vote. So what does that tell us about the power of the people in the United States? Sometimes you have to go out, like, on your own. You can't rely on, like, the government to do it for you, right? You can't. You can't rely on the government to do it. You have to take it into your own hands. Right. Do we see anything like that happening today? I think I'm listening to somebody else's lecture. Do we, do we see anything like this happening today? Yeah, I mean, I, I think so. Where. Give me an example. Yeah, I was going to say last summer. Protesting going on. Exactly. Now this protesting in terms of Black Lives Matter and, and equal rights and equal representation. Has this, is this something that just popped up in the last couple years? Definitely not, no. When did, when did it start, the civil rights movement at least? Well, even before that. Right? Yeah. Yeah. Was. Was actually the culmination of 100 years of, of activism after Reconstruction. Right. You guys follow me here. Okay, so. So what we see then is that, that, I mean, we can look at, for example, we will actually look at later. We'll see riots in, in cities in the United states in the 1960s over things that are still being discussed. Black Lives Matter, police brutality, things like that. Right. And these, these protests keep happening, but is it actually, do you think they were actually moving toward any kind of progress in that regard? I think so. I think more people becoming aware of what's going on. Okay. And that's like the, the first, that's like, refers to many steps at least, you know, Right. Because if the people are all for something, what are the politicians going to do? They're going to have to adjusting legislation. Yeah, exactly. Right. In charge of them. Exactly. If the people don't like what the college students are doing, then they what? Vote them out of office. So the main thing here then for us to take away from this is that the power in the United States isn't in the hands of politicians. It's in our hands. But it's only in our hands if we use it. If we don't use it, we don't have any power. You follow what I'm saying here? So there I am trying to turn you guys all into radicals. Radical to vote, huh? Yeah, well, voting is part of it, but then also raising your voice. Don't just think, oh, that's a problem for somebody else. Right. Because we're all Americans. It's like one of my. Go ahead. I'm sorry. I was gonna say, isn't that how they flip Georgia? A lot of black organizers ought to vote and managed to actually flip it in the urban areas. Exactly. But one of my favorite quotes from Martin Luther King is we may have all come here on different ships, but we're all in the same boat now. All right, let's move on. On page 111 Meacham writes about the rise of the new KKK at a time when industrialization, urbanization were transforming the old agrarian world. The Klan promised racial solidarity and cultural certitude. The Klan offered structure, position and brotherhood to many restive and or disoriented men from small towns and big cities in Americas. In the america of the 1920s, David. The historian David H. Bennett wrote, it was a movement so remarkably suited to its time and place that its growth matched the boom of the larger nation. Describes some of the social economic conditions of the 1920s. Meacham calls out as catalysts for the rise of the Klan. Alright, so what is the reason for it? The Klan was dead actually after the 1870s, but now we see this new rise in the Klan. What's the reason for it? One of the reasons I said was like that there was a lot more fear towards immigration and like people coming in and like because of communism rising in Europe, stuff like that. So, so do you guys remember in the movie the 20s when, when Bill Moyers was talking about the rise of the Klan and he said that it wasn't just against blacks, it was against professors and liberals and Jews and communists and basically anybody that wasn't white? Okay, so then we see then that this movement towards. It's actually racial nativism, right? The idea that in order to be an American, you have to be white. Okay? So we have this nationalism that America is the greatest, but the only people that in America that belong are the white people, right? And when we see, during the early part of the 19th, the 20th century, huge masses of immigration from people from all over Europe, from Eastern Europe, Poles and Slovaks and Russians and Jews and Italians, all these different people coming to America, what is that doing to white America? Diluting white America. Yeah, it's diluting a white America. And, and now if I'm. If I'm, say, a white farmer, right? And I'm looking at what's happening to my country with all these foreigners coming in, and plus the farms are all closing down because. Because the country's becoming industrialized. What am I going to think about these newcomers coming? Newcomers come and they get jobs in the factories, right? And I'm here barely making a living on the farm. They're jealous. They're. Exactly. And they're fearful, Right? They're fearful that somebody's going to take away from them something that's theirs. And then they. They imagine it in cultural terms, right? They imagine it in. Okay, well, we used to have a good old country that was white and Christian and everybody was the same. And, and, and it was good and everybody was prosperous. And now we got all these damn foreigners coming in with all their crazy ideas and languages. And, and, and we're losing everything. We're going to lose everything, right? I don't know if you guys will remember the, the Ignite to Write or whatever. Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville a couple years ago and that you saw video of the people marching through the streets with torches saying, jews will not replace us. You know, do you know what that really represents is this idea that. That lesser races are going to replace the. The. The master race, the white race. You guys get what I'm saying? And this is a fear, and it's something that people really still believe today, right, that we're going to lose our white identity. It's going to be diluted by. By people of different backgrounds. And what happens if we lose our white identity? Come on, you guys, think about it. What would it. What would be the result of us losing our white identity? I guess they would think America would cease to exist at that point. Maybe. Yeah. It wouldn't be the America that we. I'm sorry, according to tr. Wouldn't be Anglo Saxon anymore. So it wouldn't be American we wouldn't. It wouldn't be American. We're going to lose America. We're going to lose America. Right. Okay, well, so at any rate, let me ask you this question. Do you see similar conditions in America today? You don't have to say that because it's pretty obvious. But let me ask you this. Do you think that what happened in the 1920s helps to explain this increase of nativism in America today? In fact, what do you think about what is what. What do you think about nativism? I mean, I don't think, I'm not asking whether you think it's good or bad, but where do you see it in American life or in history? We just saw an example. One example is like, when it's like nativism is just protecting the American culture. Right, Right. Could you call Trump's travel ban a something for nativism or that be just because he's scared of immigration? Well, I don't think that they're mutually exclusive. Right. Why would somebody be afraid of immigration? But I think that the Trump administration's immigration policy was definitely a nativist, meaning that we don't want anybody from the outside coming in and screwing up our country. Right, Right. Okay. But now do you think that Trump invented nativism? No. No. I mean, we go all the way back. Look at what Hamilton said, 1802. We don't want, we don't want those foreigners in here. Right. And there were whole political parties in the 1840s, 1850s, and, and moving forward that were against Irish people, that were against Catholics. Right. You guys following here against Chinese people, against Asians. You're following me here, right? Okay, so this nativism has always been a kind of a constant strain in American thought. So if we look at what happened in the 1920s, does that help us to understand this nativist, I guess, resurgence today? What do you guys think? Can we, can we now see why Americans might be nativist? Well, the original cause of nativism was. Was. Was fear, right? Well, it originally was fear. Do you think it's still fear or do you think it's something else? I mean, definitely, yeah. I mean, I'm not quite sure the exact reason why, but I definitely think fear is probably a big factor in it. I like fear mongering in general. Just like the other. Fear of the other. It's fear of losing something. You know, I, I don't know if you guys know this, but I mean, one of the big things that drives a lot of these extremist movements today is the fear that white culture will Disappear. That white culture is being threatened and it's going to disappear right now. Now, other people might look at that and say, well, that's just ridiculous, but that the people that believe it really believe it, and it causes them then to act in a way that would support that belief that makes sense to you guys. So when we look at when people do things that today may seem to us to be ridiculous, we have to be able to say, well, I understand why you're doing it. I don't think it's right, but at least I know why. And then on top of that, we can say, okay, well, if America was nativist in the 18, then is it, is it something that's unmanageable to think of America as being nativist today? Is it really, Is it really an existential threat to America, this nativism? I don't think it's that much of a problem. Problem today as it was back then. Okay, but even if it was right, what I think that what Meacham's telling us and what history tells us is that we've always had to deal with this nativism. It's not something that's new. And that's one of the, one of the biggest advantages of knowing history is that is to be able to say, well, this isn't something that that's new. It's not something that we've never had to deal with before. And, and so because of that, you know, you're not going to get me all riled up and hysterical about something that's been going on for 300 years. You, you follow what I'm saying? Doesn't mean I think it's okay, but I think it's not something that that is. Is. Is a new threat that needs to be dealt with by some extreme measure. Okay. Questions? Comments about any of this? All right, this is interesting. I don't know. Did you guys read the poems? Page 117 and page 118. What was the. Tell me about the two poems. One of them was like celebrating the Statue of Liberty. Liberty, right. And then one of them was a poem I think is someone really didn't like immigrants and just started naming negative stereotypes of them. I think that was the 1,117 and the 1 on 118 was about the Statue of Liberty. Right. Okay, so let me just read from both of the poems. Not a whole thing, but just a couple of sentences. In the first one by Thomas Bailey Aldrich, it says, in the street and alley what strange tongues are loud accents of menace, alien to our air voices that once the tower of Babylon knew. O Liberty, white goddess, is it well to leave the gates unguarded? So what is this poet saying or asking? It's anti immigration, right? Yeah, exactly. Okay, we don't want to. And if you look at the. This is. This is a motley throng. A wild motley throng. Men from the Volga, Tartar steps, Wang Ho, Malayan, Scythian, Tutin, Celt, Slav, all these flying the old world's poverty and scorn. Right. This is what's happening. We're letting all these people in. But then, now let's look at what Emma Lazarus writes when she says, keep your. Keep ancient lands, your storied pomp with silent lips, give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, the wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these the homeless tempest tossed to me. I lift my lamp beside the golden doctor. What is she saying? Pro immigration. Total opposite. Exactly right. And so I guess what I asked you was what was your response to each? I think that we'll just leave that for now. But I do want to mention, I think that that really sums up the perpetual American attitude towards immigration. Right. And in reality, you know, we like to think of ourselves as a land of immigrants and that we're open to immigration, but in reality, the United States has always been pretty closed. Right. Even. Even at a time when, like after the beginning of the 20th century, there's always been, like, quotas of people that could come in from different parts of the. The world and things like that. We just don't let people in. Right. I never have. Okay. Sometimes more restrictive than others. But at any rate. Questions? Comments? Number 9 on page 125. Meacham writes, One legacy of Dayton was that religion and science had joined race and ethnicity. It is, as a theater of war in the fight within the American soul. Okay, so first off, what's he talking about? What's. What happened in Dayton? Wasn't Dayton where they had, like, that one court case where it was, like, if they should teach, like evolutionists or creationists? Exactly. Does anybody remember what they call that? You should probably know the name. It's the Scopes Trial. Right. Because the name of the teacher was Scopes. Okay. It's also sometimes called the Scopes Monkey Trial because they conservatives, the people that were in support of the state law that outlawed teaching evolution, rejected evolution because evolution implied that American, that people, not just Americans, but all people, are descended from monkeys. Right. That there were monkeys and then they evolved into Humans. Right. And they would say, well, the Bible says that we were created as humans, so therefore we couldn't have evolved from monkeys. You follow what I'm saying? And this is what the argument was about. On the one hand, there's this scientific theory which is. Has plenty of evidence to back it up. That's, that shows evolution. And on the other hand, there's this deeply held faith that the Bible is true and the Bible says that humans were created directly by God. There was no evolution involved. Right? Okay. So at up to this point in Tennessee, the, the legislature in Tennessee had said, well, we're going to support the Bible, we're going to teach the Bible, and we're not going to teach the science. Okay? And, and this comes to a head when you have this one high school teacher who starts to teach evolution and he's brought to trial. And it becomes a national sensation. Everybody in the country is looking at this trial and seeing the two arguments in favor of science and in favor of religion, and it becomes a part of American politics, right. That one group in the United States is going to. I should say one group of politicians in the United States is going to appeal to those people who we would call fundamentalists or people that believe that the Bible is true and science is wrong. And. And then the other group of politicians is going to gravitate towards more toward the other side. Right? And it becomes a part of American politics. Does that seem like something that's true in today's politics? Do we see in our politics a conflict between religion and science? So what we're saying is we've seen up to now the conflict has been over ethnicity and race, but now we can also see a conflict over religion versus science. Yeah, we have a lot of that, like evolution in schools and like vaccines and stuff. So anti vaccine people and why are they against vaccines? Tons of different reasons. There's a lot of reasons, I guess. But if we were to boil it down, we would say, I mean, vaccines. All right, here, let me talk. This is, this is a good example, climate change, Right. Climate change has been scientifically proven, okay. There has been a, a campaign to try to discredit science that proves climate change. And the way that they do it is by introducing doubt. They'll say, they won't say, oh, no, the climate's not changing. But they'll say, well, we don't really know if this is true and because this might be true. Right. And so instead of refuting it, they'll say, well, we don't really know what's true. Right. And that's why people today who deny climate change will say, well, the science isn't conclusive. It is conclusive. Right. But. But people are still able to say, no, it's not, because I've got this report that was signed by this PhD that says that it's not conclusive. You. You follow? I'm saying. Okay, so, so then there's a, there's a, an argument over science. Right? Is the climate changing or not? But the argument. What, what is, what is the, the argument against the science? God. Well, exactly. I mean, not everybody, but a lot of people are saying, well, God wouldn't allow the, the climate to change that way. That would threaten humanity. Right? So. So even if it is changing, it doesn't matter because God's going to fix it. Right. What do you guys think about that? Does that sound right to you? I mean, not that. Does it sound right that God's going to fix it or. What I'm saying is, does that sound like the argument. Right. So is that an argument then between science and faith? Yeah, it would be. What about the, what about the argument of people who say that even though the science says if you put a bunch of people in a small room singing songs and chanting that, it's likely to spread? Covid. Right. But the, My response to that is that it's a, it's a church and I can go into church and God will keep me safe. Right. And so those people then say, well, these laws that are trying to keep me out of my church are unconstitutional. Right. You see what I'm saying? Is that an argument between science and faith? Yeah. Yeah. Okay, so then when we look back to the 1920s, or I should say it this way, when we think about what happened in the 1920s, can we better contextualize this argument between science and faith? Is it something that's new or is it something that's always been part of. It's something that's been part of American politics. Right. Okay. One of the things, when we do our group projects, one of the group projects, one of the groups is going to be working on this flu and the COVID pandemic. Right. And see the similarities between the two. Right. And this is to number 10 really kind of encapsulates all by asking the question, did we learn anything from learning about the 1920s or the earlier part of the 20th century? Does it help us in our sense of ourselves today to know what happened before? I'm talking about you personally. Did you personally learn anything that you think is helpful in understanding today. And if you say yes, I'm going to ask you what. Just so you know, it's not a trap. So what do you think? Somebody's got to answer. I'm not gonna let anybody go till you answer, actually. Yeah, on that. What was the question? It. The question is, does studying the. Exercising about the past help you to better understand our present? Yeah, I guess it is. Because it gives us a reason or gives us some. Some piece of tangible evidence to relate our past and give us a reason of why things are the way that they are today is because as we know that history cannot be resolved in one day and it takes decades, centuries. And to know at least what progress we made is. Is somewhat of an accomplishment. Okay, anybody else can say something. Are you asking if history. I'm asking if doing this exercise helped you to better understand what it means to be an American in the United States today and how the America acts today? Yeah, definitely. A lot of today. A lot of it. You sort of look back in American history and kind of like wince a little bit sometimes just because you. You see at least a lot of people that I know look back on it, liberals and such, and they sort of like, wince and be like, oh, that we were all racist back then. Like, it was just a really bad time. But you could fit in this point of view. You could see a lot of progress happening as well. And it's definitely comforting to see how far we've come and sort of the mistakes we made and like, like I said, the better angels we've. We've leaned towards, you know. Okay. I definitely think it's helpful. Okay, I'm gonna actually let Cooper have the last word here because unfortunately it's 1225 and that means it's time for us to end. It's unfortunate for me, not for you guys, because I'm sure you want to leave, but I wish we could go on with our discussion. At any rate, I have to let you guys go. So I'll see you on Monday. Don't forget to do the. The. To watch the video. And I'll see you on Monday. Live long and prosper. Thanks, Professor. Have a good one. Have a good one. Thank you. Goodbye, Professor. We'll see you guys. Have a great weekend. Usual.