 Chipn thoughts I grew up in a small farming community in southern Minnesota called Worthington. Small town America, at least my small town, had great virtues. There was a safe place to grow up. There was Little League baseball in the summer and there was hockey in the winter. Everybody knows everyone else's business and their faults and what's happening in their marriages and where the kids have gone wrong. It was full of the Kiwanis boys and the Elks Club and the country club set and kind of chatty housewives and the holier-than-now ministers. I remember the day my draft notice arrived. It was a summer afternoon, maybe June of 68. And I remember taking that envelope into the house and putting it on the kitchen table where my mom and dad were having lunch and they didn't even read it. They just looked at it and knew what it was. And the silence of that lunch, I didn't speak, my mom didn't speak, my dad didn't speak, but just that piece of paper lying at the center of the table, is enough to make me cry to this day. Not for myself, but for my mom and dad, who both of them had been in the Navy during World War II, had believed in service to one's country and all those values. On the one hand, I did think the war was less than righteous. On the other hand, I love my country and I valued my life in a small town with friends and family. And so the summer of 68, I wrestled with what to do was, for me at least, more torturous and devastating and emotionally painful than anything that happened in Vietnam. In the end, I just capitulated. And one day, I got on a bus with other recent graduates. And we went over to Sioux Falls about 60 miles away and raised our hands and got in the Army. But it wasn't a decision, it was a forfeiture of a decision. It was letting my body go, turning a switch in my conscience, just turning it off. So it wouldn't be barking at me, saying you're doing a bad and evil and stupid and unpatriotic thing. Do you go off and kill people if you're not pretty sure it's right? And if your nation isn't pretty sure it's right, if there isn't some consensus, do you do that? I was at Fort Lewis, Washington, and Canada was, what, a 90-minute bus ride away. I wrote my mom and dad and asked for money. I asked for my passport. And they sent them to me with, again, no questions. Like, what do you want the passport for? They just sent it. And I kept all this stuff stashed, including civilian clothes, stashed in my footlock, thinking maybe I'll do it. It was this kind of maybe thing going on all throughout this training as Vietnam got closer and closer and closer. What prevented me from doing it? I think it was pretty simple and stupid. It was a fear of embarrassment, a fear of ridicule and humiliation. What my girlfriend would have thought of me and the people in the Gobbler Cafe in downtown Worthington. The Kiwanis boys and the country club boys in that small town I grew up in, the things they'd say about me. What a coward and what a sissy for going to Canada. And I would imagine my mom and dad overhearing something like that. I couldn't summon the courage to say no to those nameless, faceless people who really, in essence, this was the United States of America. And I couldn't say no to them. And I had to live with it now for 40 years. It was a long time to live with a failure of conscience and a failure of nerve. And the nightmare of Vietnam for me is not the bombs and the bullets. It's that failure of nerve that I so regret.