Africa unite. Cause we're moving right out of Babylon. And we're moving to our Father's land. How good and unpleasant it would be before God and man. Yeah. To see the unification of Africans. Has it been said already? Let it be done. We are the children of the of. We are the children of I am. Africa unite. Cause our children want to come. Africa unite. Cause we're moving right out of B. And we're grooving to how our Father. Yeah. How good and how pleasant it would be before God and man. To see the unification of all Ra. As it's been said. Ready? Let it be done. I tell you who we are under the sun. We are the children of the Rastaman. We are the children of the. I am Africa United. Afri. Africa united. Unite for the benefit of your people. Unite for it. Unite for the benefit of my children. Unite for it. Africa. Did you guys like my song? Yes. Does anybody wanna. Does anybody want to guess why I played that song today? So we're doing Africa stuff. Exactly. We're talking about Africa. So, unfortunately, I don't know a lot of songs about Africa. It's either that one or Weezer's, you know, Africa, whatever thing. That's Toto. Yeah, the Toto cover. But Weezer did it better, I think. But anyway, no, it was a shot. It was like an exact remake of it, so. Well, I like Weezer better. Let's just put it that way. So how you guys doing? Any questions, comments about anything that I can help you with? I've been working on putting some things together here. Let me just show you where we're going to be going here in the next couple of weeks. Let me start off by showing you the canvas page. That's here, I think. Wait a minute. Where is it? Here it is. Okay, now, do you guys see the canvas page? Yeah. Okay, so what you'll notice is that we are here kind of going through our little introductory sessions. And today I'm going to give you a lecture. And the. The link for the lecture is here. I'll come back to that in a minute. And then for Thursday, we're gonna. Instead of meeting in class, what I'm going to do is have you guys watch a video called the Empires of Gold. It's from a series called Africa's Greatest Empires. And then. So the link is going to be here. The link. Actually, you have to sign in to the library website to be able to see the video. Right. So if you have trouble doing that, let me know. But at any rate, so you go and you watch the video. It's about an hour, and then there's going to be an online discussion. So what that means is that everybody will be expected to answer these questions. Read the instructions here, and answer the questions to the best of your ability. And then I also want you to try to engage other students by responding to their answers. Right? That's how it kind of turns into a discussion. And we're all kind of trying to learn from each other. So. So that's gonna. That. That will be available, I think, for a week, right. Due September 9th. So that's next Thursday. Right? So. So you'll have one week to do this discussion. All right. Does that make sense to you guys? So. So on Thursday, we're not meeting in class. Instead, you're going to be watching the video, and you can start. Because really, seriously, there's no reason for me to show the video to you guys on Zoom. You guys can watch it just as easily by yourselves. Me to do it here. Right? So. So at any rate, you guys watch the video, do the discussion. That'll be done. Have to be done by next Thursday. I can't accept any late work because it's already. I mean, it's a discussion, so it'll be over by then. All right, Any questions or comments about that? You guys all understand what's required here. If at any time you have any questions about anything, you know, shoot me an email or ask me a question in class or after class, and I'll be happy to help you with it. We are. We reply on this. This page. We reply on this page. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. You just reply. And everybody. This is like, It's. This is the topic. Right? So everybody will just respond to this, and I'll actually try to. To. To monitor this so that I can, you know, maybe add some of some of my own comments at some point. So anyway, so. So hopefully you guys will. Will benefit from that. I think that the video is actually very good. And I mean, I know it's not like, you know, watching whatever movies you guys like to watch, but it's for a history movie, it's pretty good. All right, so anyway, any other questions? Thanks for the question. Bobby, any other questions? Okay, so that's. That's what we're gonna do Thursday. And then you guys know that Monday is Labor Day, right? So there's no. There's no school on Monday. But we don't. We don't meet on Monday anyway, so we have to. We will be meeting on Tuesday, and we're going to be starting to talk about East Asia at that point. Now the other thing that's coming up is right now is well first off you've got this one to do from last week and that's going to be due next Thursday I think as well. Or maybe Monday, maybe Tuesday, I'm not sure. But I noticed today that nobody has actually tried that yet. Then there's also going to be a little quiz, it's a 10 question quiz that will be available after class on Thursday. So basically 210 on Thursday it'll be available. You have one week to answer the 10 question quiz. All the questions come from the textbook, right? So basically what that the, the purpose of doing this is to help you guys to keep up with what's going on in the textbook so that you'll have a better idea of what I'm talking about in class. All right, so, so I'm gonna, I'm dividing it up now to do. There'll be one, one little quiz essentially 10 question quiz for, for each chapter. And so each, all of the quizzes together will be 120 points total. Right? They're graded on 100 point scale. It's self graded. You'll see the answers as soon as you're done with the exam. That's basically it. Any questions about that? So this is another thing that has to be done. It has to be done before the deadline. All right, all right. So anyway, questions, comments about any of that. How do we know what part to read in our book? You look on the syllabus. All right, so here, let me just show you just so that we can be clear about this. Right? You go to the syllabus and you'll notice that I put numbers beside basically every week. So today we're talking about Islam, Africa and the transatlantic world. And that's chapter 25. So the quiz is going to be on chapter 25, right. And then next week it'll be chapter 26 and going on and you see some of these chapters are out of order because I think that the way that I'm teaching the class makes more sense than the way the book presents it. But at any rate that's, that's, that's where you figure it out. Okay, Any questions, comments? You guys are good. All right, so let's just go ahead and I'm gonna go ahead and close this window. Go to this window and then as I mentioned you can find the slide sets. Right? The links to the slide sets right here. Right. And so this is what we got Today, West African empires in the transatlantic world. And we. We kind of already started talking about this a little bit. Can you. Oh, you can't see this, can you? I'm sorry. Oh, I did. I was sharing. It wasn't on. Now. I don't know what the heck I'm doing. And computer thingies. All right, now do you see this? The slide set. Okay. All right. So as I mentioned, we started talking about this last week a little bit. I'm going to go into it in a little bit greater depth today. One thing that we should know about Africa before we start off is that Africa is enormous, and it's made up of thousands of different groups of people. It's in many ways, I mean, if you think about the world in 1500, basically, it was just hundreds of thousands of little local power centers. And I showed you guys that, I think, a little bit last week when I showed you in Europe. They had all these little principalities and things, right? It's the same all over the world, really. There's. There's. There are larger. There are larger connections. So, for example, Europe is. Is interconnected, and it's connected with the Middle east, and it's connected with North Africa. And there's a kind of a longer distance relationship between, say, for example, North Africa or Europe and East Asia. But in terms of how most people live, they're not living in these big things. They're not living, like in the United States. They're living, like in Encinitas or North park or whatever, something like that. You're just a little local area there. Right. Okay. So. So when we look at the. If we. If we were to look at a map of Africa, which I'm not going to right now, but if you were to look at a map of Africa, it is first, it's enormous. It's much bigger, really, than it looks on the. On the way that our maps are made. Okay. And it's filled with many, many, many, many, many different kinds of people, right? Speaking different languages. They look different. There's different ethnic groups and things like that. But what we're going to focus on today is three West African kingdoms. And just. I wish I should have put a map of Africa in here, right? But if you look at Africa here, you can barely see it. But if you look at Africa, this area right here by the Mediterranean Sea is, you know, what we call North Africa. And then there's this enormous desert, which I've talked about before, the Sahara Desert. And then this area down here is a kind of a Plains, grassland area that's called the Sahel. S A H E L and then it goes into forests along the coast. And then as you get down closer to what we call Central Africa, there's more of the jungle kind of thing that you were. That you probably think of when you think of Africa. Right? But so basically, the way we think about, when we talk about Africa, we'll talk about North Africa, the Sahara, the Sahel. And the Sahel is part of sub Saharan Africa. So anything south of the Sahara Desert is sub Saharan Africa. Okay. What we're looking at here mostly is in what we call the Sahel. All right, Any questions? Comments? If I'm actually looking at you guys, although I would like to see your faces if you want to turn your cameras on. But so if you have something to say, just, you know, speak up a little bit. All right, so. So anyway, so the first one we're going to talk about then is Ghana, all right? And God, I'm sorry, Ghana rises to prominence in about the year 1000. So. So we have to think about, well, by the year 1000. What was, what was, what was the. What was the state. What was the state of existence of Islam in the year 1000? Does anybody know. Anybody know when Islam started? I did talk about it a little bit last week. Right. Nobody knows. It's the eighth seventh century, six hundreds. Okay. So. So by the time we get to the year 1000, Islam has already spread throughout North Africa and across the Sahara into this region. And so what happens is that the one kind of main contribution of Islam to this area is that it gives. It provides a written language. Okay. Before this, the West Africans did not have a written language, but when the Muslims came, they brought the Arabic language with them. And so that was. That gave them their first written language in the late, I guess you could say, during what we would call the Middle Ages in Europe. Okay. And Islam did have some impact beyond that culturally, but it wasn't. It didn't. It didn't become predominant. It wasn't a dominant religion. What happened in West Africa, and this happens really throughout the period that we're talking about, is that Islam is present and it is widely recognized, but it's not practiced by most of the people. Most of the people continue to practice some kind of animistic religion throughout this period. What does happen is that the rulers often will adopt or convert to Islam. All right, Questions? Comments? Any of this? So now if we look here at Ghana, as I mentioned here, it flourishes. Its height is in really, the 14th century, that would be the 1300s. And the reason why it was so powerful was because it was so wealthy. And here's where we can see the greatest demonstration of the golden rule. What is the golden rule? Come on, you guys. What is the golden rule? Whoever has the gold makes the rules. Right? And Ghana had all the gold. There was a lot of gold. There are a lot of gold mines in West Africa. Ghana was able to become wealthy on the trade of gold across all of these trading connections that went across the Sahara Desert. So. So I think I mentioned to you guys last week that these trading connections, the. The Sahara was thought of, generally, it could be thought of as a giant ocean of sand, and that there were routes across that ocean that had been traveled for centuries, going back to before the time of the Roman Empire. Right, okay. So the. The. The people of Ghana, the rulers of Ghana, were able to control the trade of gold from this area. And because of that, they became very powerful. All right, the other things that are traded, and I think I mentioned this the other day, that are. That are traded from this area are salt and slaves. All right, we're going to talk a little bit more about slaves before the end of today's lecture. Salt is very important. Salt is money, essentially, in West Africa. Right. And it's rather scarce. And because of that, whoever is able to control the salt mines, which they do, is able to gain a lot of wealth from it. Okay, any questions about anything? All right, let me just show you. I want to show you a couple things here. When we talk about the trading cities in West Africa, there's many of them, but the main trading cities are going to be Jenna, Timbuktu, and Gao. All right, now, some of you guys probably think that Timbuktu is a joke, right? But actually, it's a real city. It's still there, and it's a very rich and historic place. We'll see a little bit more about that as we go on. Right. But anyway, when we talk about the trading cities, these are the cities. Whoever controls these cities basically controls West Africa. All right, questions, Comments about this. Now, one thing that you should know, and we're actually talking about these great empires, Ghana being one of them. But these. Every. Every empire in West Africa is constantly challenged by nomadic people who live in the Sahara, called Berbers. Right? So there are warlike people, and they're constantly challenging these civilizations in, not only in here, in Central Africa, West Africa. West. Central Africa. But also in North Africa as well. All right, questions, Comments about this. So I'M sorry, go ahead. Sorry. I was asking, who were the Berbers again? They. They were like pirates or. Oh, it could be. You could think of them kind of like pirates of this. Of the desert. Right. Because they are. They. They make their living essentially by raiding camel caravans and. And other settled places. Okay. So, yeah, they're kind of like. You could think of them as pirates in a way. Any other questions? That's a good question. Any other questions? Okay. All right. So why does Ghana fall? Because of a couple things. Rival trade routes, meaning that if they were controlling these cities and then some other groups were able to establish different trade routes that would. That would miss those cities. Then because of that, they start to lose some of their. Their. Their wealth. And then there were the raids by the nomadic tribesmen, the Berbers, like I mentioned. And then also, interestingly enough, there were a group of people in. They started in. In Morocco. You'll see this in the video. Right? And they're called amoravids, but they basically are a breakaway sect of Islam who want to impose a literal practice of Islam according to the Quran. And so they are going to actually put a lot of pressure on Ghana. So eventually what will happen is that Ghana will lose its ability to maintain its empire and it will break up into a number of smaller kingdoms. All right, questions? Comments about this? Okay, so now let's go to the next area, which is Mali. Mali, I think, is very, very interesting. It was founded in the 13th century by the defeat of the Ghana king. Mali was a smaller kingdom as part of Ghana, but it breaks away and then it defeats Ghana and then becomes the. Basically establishes its own empire. Right. It sees control of the trading cities. You see this here, it's kind of a good. This is where it was. And you see it controls the three major trading cities along the Niger River. And because of that, it was actually bigger than Ghana. And it had access to most of the gold mines, the biggest gold mines. And as a result of that, it became incredibly powerfully wealthy. And I think that. I don't know if you guys have ever heard of a guy named Mansa Musa. Has anybody heard of him? No, most people have not. Where did you hear of him from? In middle school. Middle school. Okay, good. I actually heard of him because he was one of the leaders on civilization, but. But I had no idea what he was about. Okay. But now I do. And he's a very interesting guy. He becomes the ruler. That's what Mansa means. Mansa is a kind of a ruler. His name is Musa. He becomes the ruler of the, of the Mali empire. And some people claim, most, many people claim, I guess, that he was the richest man to have ever lived. He converted to Islam and to kind of demonstrate the wealth that he was able to control. And that was, that was present in, in the, the empire of Mali. He. He went on what was known as the Hajj. The Hajj is a pilgrimage to Mecca in the year 1234, I think. Is that right? I have to look at. I have to look at this date. Right. But anyway, the dates aren't that important. The main thing is he went on this great Hajj and when he did, he just. It was an enormous undertaking, gave way, you know, billions of dollars worth of gold. I want to show you a little, a little clip, it's about four minutes long, that talks about that great Hodge. So let me go ahead and how am I going to do this? Let's do this. And then. All right, so I just show the video here. Like I said, it's about four minutes. Mali's role in global commerce brought it recognition, respect, and envy from afar. This is the Catalan Atlas, a map dating from 1375, probably owned by King Charles V of France. On its southern edge is Mali, personified by its greatest ruler, the legendary emperor Mansa Musa. Gus, it's such a surprise to see a black man on a map from the 14th century. How did Mansa Musa get on this atlas? This was a known figure in Europe. This was someone who had influence not just within Africa, but beyond. And he was interested himself in seeing beyond his own kingdom. And he's represented with the gold orb, gold crown, gold scepter. Yes. And it's a fantastically wealthy kingdom. It has some of the biggest gold mines in the region. It also has copper. It also has salt. If you look at this map, it gives a sense of how it's right at the center of a nexus of trade routes that link it right across the continent. It's not just the continent. It's beyond Mali's control of a large share of the world's gold supply, especially Europe's, gave Mansa Musa wealth beyond compare. It's often claimed that Mansa Musa is the richest man who has ever lived. The newspapers constructing top 10 lists of the wealthiest people of all time, they almost always put Mansa Musa first. And some of them will say that his net worth, adjusted for inflation, is something like 400 billion in today's money. In 1324, Mansa Musa's notoriety grew exponentially thanks to reports of his largesse and generosity during his Hajj, the pilgrimage to the Muslim holy city of Mecca. His pilgrimage that he makes in 1324. 1325. You know, different accounts, but the usual account is something like 300 camels laden with gold. In addition to all the people that are traveling with him. Ibn Khaldun, the great author working at Fez's Keroween library, wrote an account of a person in Mansa Musa's entourage. We used to keep the sultan company during his progress and converse to his enjoyment. At each halt, he would regale us with rare foods and confectionery. His equipment and furnishings were carried by 12,000 private slave women Wearing gowns of brocade and Yemeni silk. Mansa Musa and his retinue stopped at every town between Mali and Mecca. It was said that Mansa Musa's largesse knew no bounds. As he made his way to Mecca, he handed out extravagant amounts of gold, High ranking officials and working people alike. And according to legend, his generosity inadvertently destabilized the economy of Cairo. He distributed so much gold that its market value collapsed and took years to recover. As he traveled, he purchased camel loads of books and recruited respected scholars to bring back home. When he comes back is when he begins to invest, especially in the construction of mosques and schools in the town of Timbuktu. Mansa Musa, he's trying to invest in learning and schooling and knowledge in order to diversify the economic and social basis for what he's trying to do in the empire of Mali. Okay, did you guys think that was pretty cool, Pretty impressive? Yeah, go ahead. So the guy gave away the gold? He didn't sell it? No, he just gave it away. Generous. We'll think about it. If you think about now, if you wanted to go buy something that was made out of gold right now, you would have to pay a lot of money for it because it's very scarce. Right? But if somebody came to town and just gave away a ton of gold, then the value of the gold would go to nothing because it's easy to get. Right? You see what I'm saying? And that's exactly what he did. He gave away so much gold that gold could not be used as a means of exchange for some period of time. That answer your question? Yeah, yeah. Any other questions or comments? Does this seems. Does any of this seem surprising to any of you guys? I like that he was investing in his empire and through education and stuff like that. It's different than a lot of the other empires though, possibly studied, including this One. So I get the empire was a big, centralized, essentially trade empire, but how was that all leading up to the top? How did all the wealth accumulate into his hands? Because you have the individual traders doing the trading. But how did all the wealth eventually work back to him? It's called taxation. Okay, okay. Yeah. And you'll see that that's what happens everywhere really. Like we'll, we'll talk about. In a couple weeks, we'll talk about the Spanish empire in America. And they, the Spanish were able to produce enormous amounts of wealth in America, but 20% of it always went to the king. Right? So. So the king didn't do anything to gain that money except be the king. And it's the same thing here. Some percentage of this trade is going to go to Mansa Musa just because he's the king, and then he can do whatever he wants with the money. Right? Any questions or comments about that? Do you play civ? Do I do what? Oh, I have, I had, I used to play it. I just don't, I don't. I have to tell you, and you probably think I'm just an old fuddy duddy now, but I can't abide the violence in the games, right. I can't see condoning in fantasy things that I condemn in reality. And so I don't play violent games anymore. Okay, so. But I used to and I enjoyed it. But it really, it does. I mean, I can say days on end and, and you know, you know, lose much sleep and become crazy. But anyway, which one did you play? The last one I played was six. Okay. Yeah. All right. Any questions, comments? Besides, you know, my video game, I, I mostly play solitaire now. All right, so what happens to Mali? Well, Molly, like anything else, one of the things that's interesting about all of the empires that we will study before we start talking about Europe is that they're all agricultural countries. And the thing about agricultural countries is that they will, if they grow, they will reach a point where the agriculture isn't enough to sustain the power of the kingdom. Right? And so that's one of the reasons why empires after a certain period of time start to go into decline, right? And that's what happens to Mali. Mali starts to go into decline. And then eventually, because of this continuous challenge by these nomads and other groups around, other kingdoms around, and in particular, there's going to be a group called the Songhai who are going to come from here, down in this area, right? And they will. I'm sorry I broke this up. Here they will eventually bring the empire of Mali down and basically Shanghai will replace. Okay, questions? Comments? Okay, so lastly, then we'll talk. Oh, I'm sorry, go ahead. Did these empires ever try to go like, like bring the battle to the nomads or like, was it always just the nomads just constantly pressuring them? Well, you know, the thing about, the thing about they didn't actually. It wasn't like they, they would have, you know, expeditions to try to crush the nomads because they were everywhere and they were, it would, it would, it would be. It was very difficult to try to pin them down because they were nomadic. Right. So basically what ends up happening with these and other empires as well, the Roman Empire, the Aztec Empire, they have to defend themselves against encroachment from outside. Okay. And they aren't really to be proactive. They're not really able to be proactive. All right, questions? Comments? Sorry. So now we're going to talk a little bit about the Songhai. Songhai was actually the biggest of the three empires. It was the subject kingdom of Mali, but they became independent. And then, and then one of their great leaders, Sunni Ali, is going to, is going to essentially seize control of the trading cities. And then he, unlike, instead of trying to maintain what he has, he's going to expand it. Right. And he will expand his empire. So that you can see here, this is going to be the empire that's in existence at the time of the beginning of our course in 1500. Right. So now what we see here in the songhai empire in 1500 is contemporary, is that civilization we've seen with Mali. Right. And it's contemporary with Europe at the end of the Middle Ages. Right. So I just want you to kind of keep that in your mind that at the time of the beginning of our talk about Europe, we have already seen the rise and fall of great empires in Africa. And another thing about this is that there are other empires in Africa that we're actually not even really talking about today. Okay, questions? Comments about any of this? Okay. So they, they control the trading, slaves and salt. Talk about slaves here in a minute. Right. But they did lose control of the gold trade because as I mentioned to you last week, the Portuguese were able to start exploring around the coast of Africa. And the Portuguese are going to eventually gain control of the gold trade. Okay. And that's going to cause a significant, a significant diminishing of the power of the Songhai. It wasn't a long lived empire. They were. There was a lot of internal Conflict, different subject. Kings were very. They challenged the power of the emperor, and eventually it was conquered by Morocco. All right, now here's an interesting thing. Most of you guys probably didn't even know that there was a Moroccan empire, right? And that. But what's really significant here is that when the Moroccans. Morocco was up here, right? When the Moroccans conquered the Songhai, their armies were minuscule. The Songhai could. Could amass an army of 300,000 people, and they had 20,000 horses. But what Morocco had was guns. And so what had once been an enormous military advantage, a huge military advantage, has now become. It can now be overcome by. By new weapons. And that's going to lead then to the demise of the Songhai empire. The thing that, the reason why I wrote down here, it's an omen, is because this is kind of a foreshadowing of what's going to happen really around the world, because these weapons that the Moroccans use are European weapons. Right. And what's going to make the difference in world domination after 1500 is going to be European weapons. Europeans have weapons that other countries don't have. Okay. And because of that, they're able to encroach in places where earlier Europeans could not. Okay, that makes sense to you guys? So, so that's kind of the thing that we need to keep our mind, keep our eyes on is the introduction of these weapons. All right, questions? Comments? Okay, now we're going to talk a little bit about the slave trade and colonialism. Let's talk a little bit about the slave trade. Let me just say where we're going with the slave trade right now. When you read your book, the book is going to talk a lot about the slave trade that I'm not going to talk about right now because it's going to talk a lot about American slavery that I'm not going to talk about right now. Right. What we're going to do today is we're going to talk about the beginnings of the transatlantic slave trade. And then later in the course, we're going to talk about American slavery and race. Okay? So the first thing that we have to understand is that when we think about slavery, we usually connect it to race, but that, that's an American, really an American anomaly. It's not something that was, it wasn't, it wasn't traditional in what we think of as slavery. Right. Questions? Comments about this. So now slavery has existed everywhere. Every, every culture had slavery, right? But most slavery, most places where they had slavery, it wasn't like what we think of as slavery, okay. Because what we think of as slavery is you have these people that live in huts and you get them up at 5 o' clock in the morning and you make them go out and work in the fields all day long, and then you put them back in the huts and. And they sit there all night until the next morning, and they do the same thing over and over again. That's what's called Chatel Slavery. Right. Or using slavery for plantation. Now, they did use slaves for some of those things. Like, for example, in West Africa, they use slaves for gold mining, and they use slaves for agriculture, and they use slaves for salt mining. Right. But they also use slaves for other things as well as. As. As personal servants, as, you know, like house cleaners and things like that, but also advisors, people who were educated, who would advise ruling people. They were used as that. There was. I don't know if you guys know this, but can you. Does anybody know where the word slave comes from? No. Okay. A slave. Slave actually comes from the word Slav. Right? Slav. S L A V is. It is a group of people. Does anybody know where this group of people was or is. Actually, there's still Slavic people today. It's like Eastern Europe. Yeah, yeah, Southeastern Europe. Exactly. And what would happen would be that the sultan of the Ottoman Empire would capture Christian boys in southeastern Europe and essentially make them his military slaves. It was called the Janissary Corps. Right. But these were not like what we would think of as slaves as being people who were owned, people who were oppressed, they were highly regarded, they were well treated, and their whole purpose was to protect the sultan. Right. So that's where the word comes from. And we can see from that then that slavery wasn't always associated with race. Okay. Mostly what slavery is associated with is war. War, captured, war. Essentially two things. Either you're captured in war or you are convicted of crime. All right? So if you're captured no more, you're convicted of a crime, you can be sold into slavery. Okay. And so that's the way slavery actually worked in the Atlantic, where I should say this way, The. The Afro European world, starting from before the time of the Roman Empire, going up to the time period that we're talking about now. There was a. There was a. There was a constant trade of slaves from the Sahel region and sub Saharan Africa to the Mediterranean and into Asia and into Europe. Okay. And for all these different things that slaves could be used for. Okay. And over that period of time, as it says here, Right. They were transported from sub Saharan Africa as as many as we think, as many as about 10 million. Right. So 10 million people were transported across the Sahara Desert and sold into slavery in Europe and the Middle east and in Asia. Okay, guys are with me. Questions? Comments? All right, so what's going to happen, what's going to change is the technological advancement of the Portuguese. And you guys will remember that I talked about briefly last week that the Portuguese, in the 15th century, the king of Portugal, I can't remember his name now. It'll come to me. Anyway, the King of Portugal basically underwrote some study that created. That was. That made Portuguese able to invent technology that allowed them to sail away from the coast. Right. And when that happened, then the Portuguese sailors were able to sail away from Europe and the coast of Africa out into the open ocean. And that's where they found the Madeira Islands and the Canary Islands and the Cape Verde Islands. And what they did when they found those places, those islands, is that they captured the population and they imposed. Turned its population into slaves. All right? But what happens is that they find their way along the West African coast, and eventually they're able to start to do business with local rulers. Let me see if I can find a better picture here. Yeah, so basically, in this area here, this is going to be called the Slave Coast, Right. Later. Okay. And what happens is that there are a number of local rulers in these. In these areas, and they are able to provide slaves to the Portuguese. Right. So where did the slaves come from? Well, the slaves came from. From conflicts that had happened throughout this region between different groups of people. But what. What happens is that over time, this slave trade that's going to be what we call the Transatlantic slave trade, is going to grow so large that slavery becomes almost the basis for the economy in West Africa. We're actually in Africa. Right. And the thing you really need to understand is right where we are here, okay? No, that's not right. So the thing that we need to understand is that the slaves were captured by Africans. Right. And the way that it usually worked was that one group of Africans would. Would wage war against another group of Africans, and they would capture people, and the people that they captured would be sold into slavery. And so slavery at that point then was the result of warfare, Right? Generally speaking. All right. But what happens is that because it becomes so lucrative to sell slaves, groups of Africans go out and start wars in order to capture slaves. Right? So then we have warfare as a result of slavery. Right? So we start off with Slavery as a result of warfare. And then we change that to. It eventually becomes warfare in order to be able to provide slaves. Okay, you guys are with me. It's kind of like fighting wars to get gold or oil or something like that. Okay, questions? Comments about this? All right, so the Portuguese then were the ones who began transporting slaves to America, to the Caribbean. The Portuguese actually controlled Brazil, and Brazil actually ends up being the kind of the largest destination, or I should say the destination for the largest number of slaves in history. Okay, questions? Comments about this. Okay, so now when the Europeans. Oh, here's a map. It's a better map. When the Europeans started to acquire America. And again, we're going to talk about this in a couple weeks, right? What ended up happening was that they. They needed labor. Okay. The real reason for that is because that American natives were not useful for labor for a couple of reasons. One, because the number of them was diminishing because of the introduction of Old World diseases, but also because the natives were familiar with the land, they knew where to run. They were hard to manage. At one point, the Spanish Empire is going to make the slavery of Indians illegal. And so when they do that, they still need slaves. And so what happens is they start to import these slaves from Africa and most of the slave trade will happen here in this area. Although later, the later slave trade is going to be centered in East Africa. All right? And then the number of slaves, more, More slaves were transported to Brazil than anywhere else. And what really happens, the way that slaves are used in most of the Americas is as if they were machines, right? So basically the way you would use a machine is you go out and you buy your machine and it's a brand new machine and it does work for you, and it continues to work. You buy a car, you buy a car, it's a brand new car, everything works on it. But after a while, things start to break and you have to start to maintain it. And after a while, it becomes so expensive to maintain it. It's cheaper just to get a new car. Right? And that's the way slaves are treated in most of the Americans. The slaves are worked until they can't work anymore, which is usually around six years. And then they're. They're freed. Right? But what does it mean to be freed when you have nothing and you have no place to go? Basically, if you freed a slave at that point, all that meant was that you didn't have to feed them anymore so you could get another one that would do the work for you. You Guys, get what I'm saying? All right, so it's a really nasty. Not in north america. And we're going to talk about why, but today. We'll talk about it today. All right. Questions? Comments about any of this? All right, so one of the things that happens is that there's a tree situation develops, which is called the triangular trade. Right? The triangular trade is a triangle of gray between africa, america, and europe. All right? And the way it works is that slaves are purchased in africa in exchange for european manufactured goods, particularly guns. Right? So slaves are. Are exchanged in africa for european manufactured goods, and then they're transported to america, and they're exchanged in america for american raw materials, particularly rum, or I should say, sugar and molasses. And also sometimes, you know, mined metals like silver and gold and things like that. And then those raw goods are transported from america to europe, and they're the european. They're traded, essentially for manufactured goods. Right? So you say. So excuse me, you have. You have slaves from africa traded for manufactured goods which are brought to america and traded for raw materials which are brought back to europe, which are then turned into manufacturing goods which can be traded for were slaves. You guys get what I'm saying? So that's the triangular trade. Okay, questions? Comments about any of this? All right, we talked about this a little bit. We'll talk more about this. The debated valladolid and the incomeda. All I'm going to say about that right now is that the spanish were not opposed to using the natives as slaves. But in the 16th, in the 17th century, there was a great debate in the city of valladolid in spain over the question of whether or not the indios were actually human. Right. And it was decided by the king that because the indios were human, they deserved his protection, and therefore they could not be enslaved. All right, so we'll just leave that. And that's one of the reasons why the spanish particularly started to import lots of slaves from africa. All right, Questions? Comments? Okay, so there was a monopoly on the slave trade that was controlled, eventually ends up being controlled by the spanish. And the monopoly is called the asiento. Asiento. And basically, what the asiento is is a contract that's signed between the spanish crown and people who want to sell slaves. Right. And eventually what will happen is that the asiento will be obtained by the British. So from 1713 and throughout most of the 18th or the night. Yeah, the 18th century, most of the slave trade is accomplished by the british. Okay. It says Participants cannot see my screen. Did you not see my screen before? Whatever. Okay. So at any rate, so we want to keep that in mind, because in the end, it's going to be the British who are the first to abolish slavery, and they're going to be the ones who wage war to prevent the slave trade. Okay. So we'll just kind of keep that in mind. Questions, comments about this? So what's the last thing I got here? Oh, the impact. All right, so the number of slaves sold over 400 years was somewhere between 12 and 15 million, plus many who died in transit. Okay. The reason why we don't really know the number is because at the time the largest number of slaves was being Transported in the 19th century, it was illegal. Right. So for most of. Most of the history of the transatlantic slave trade, ship owners kept very careful records of their cargo. But after the British actually made the slave trade illegal, then selling slaves is like selling drugs, and you don't want to keep good records of that. Right. And so. But at the same time that the slave trade is illegal is the same time when the most slaves were actually transported to America. So we don't really know how many were transported, but we think it's somewhere here in the neighborhood of 12 to 15 million people over a period of 400 years. Now, I want you to compare that with 10 million people were transported across the Sahara over a period of maybe two millennium. Right. Maybe, maybe 2000 years. All right. Okay. Do you guys get what I'm saying here? You can make that comparison. So the rate of. The rate of the sale of slaves or the rate of the capture and sale of slaves is much lower when you talk about the trans Saharan slave trade then when you caught. When you talk about the transatlantic slave trade. Right. You guys are following here. Okay. And that's why one of the things that you'll notice is that people who are talking about. Remember I told you the other day, people who are talking about Africa and African trade don't like to talk about slavery, even though it was, you know, very. It was a very established part of the economy of Africa. Right. They don't like to talk about it for obvious reasons, I guess, but. But when they do talk about it, they'll say, well, it was just a small number, right? Well, yeah, okay. So we can see that the rate was much less. Right. But I'm not sure if you're the guy that's enslaved, whether you care whether it's 10 or 15 million people. Right. You guys got what I'm saying, so. So when you try, you can't excuse slavery by saying, well, there wasn't that many slaves. If there's one, that's too many. Okay, you guys got what I'm saying? All right. Okay. So where are we at here? So, yeah. So what happened in Africa as a result of this? African slave traders profited handsomely. Means there was a lot of money to be made, and that's one of the reasons why the slave trade grew. So, so, so to be so big. But what happened was then that many of the people who are in control and much of the wealth that exists in West Africa today is the result of the slave trade. Right? So. So Europeans made lots of money off of the slave population. Slave labor. Sorry. But the Africans also made lots of power and were able to acquire lots of wealth off the slave trade. Some of that still exists today. All right, questions? Comments about this? All right, so then the sub Saharan Africa, which is the area that we're talking about, did actually. I mean, there were people who did profit from this, but in general, sub Saharan Africa was basically drained of its lifeblood by the extraction of, you know, millions of people over a relatively short period of time. So the different kingdoms that were once too powerful for the Europeans to challenge become weakened because there aren't any people there. Right. And so when we talk about, like, today, and we'll talk a little bit more later in the course, we talk about developing nations. Right. What we see happen in Africa is what's called undevelopment, where essentially the level of development that they had achieved, say, during the time of the Songhai or the Mali empire, it recedes. Okay. Because there's no way to maintain it. All right? And part of this is by what they call the slave gun cycle. Slave gun cycle. Basically trading slaves for guns. That was true. And a lot of the guns that were traded were used to get more slaves. Right. But keep in mind that the slave gun cycle was only one part of a. A very complex trade network where West Africans and Europeans were trading all kinds of different things, not just slaves and guns. All right, questions? Comments about this? All right. Now, the impact on Africa, and this is going to be uncomfortable for some people to acknowledge this, but Africa, Europe is going to become incredibly wealthy after the discovery of America. And the wealth that they extracted from the Americas is mostly going to be extracted by slave labor. Right? So Europe, the rise of Europe as the most powerful area of the world is accomplished by slave labor in America. All right, questions. Comments about any of this. And I'LL I'll show you how that works. I'm not telling you that so that I can make you feel bad. I just want you to know that that's the reality of it. Okay? Questions? Comments about any of this? What time is it? All right. Okay, so here's the deal. Let me just stop the share, okay? I'm going to go ahead and let you guys go. I'm not going to call the role, and then obviously I won't call the role on Thursday because you won't be here. You'll be watching the video, right? Yes. And then. But Tuesday, I will call the rule, because Tuesday is what they call the census date, okay? That means that's the day that I have to report any drops from the class. So if you were here, if you've been here any of the days other than the first day, but you weren't here the first day and you aren't here on Tuesday, you'll be dropped. Okay, Just so you know that I don't want to drop anybody, but that's. That's the way it's going to be. If you weren't here the first day and you aren't here on Tuesday, when I call the role, you'll be dropped. Just so you know that. Okay? Any questions? Comments about this? All right? You guys have fun. Don't go camping in the national forest because they're on fire. That's not really funny, is it? Thank you, Professor. All right, guys. Thank you, Professor. Thank you. Live long and prosper. Yeah. And Greensville, California. That Greensville, California, where the Dixie fire is? Yeah, since you mentioned it, Greensville, it's completely wiped out. Whatever remnants left over there is just. Yeah, I know it's bad, but, you know, what do they say? Climate change is a Chinese hoax. Right? So. Oh, look at that. What's on my window? Oh, wait. Why is the sun red? The sun is red. Oh. Oh, is that where you are right now? No, I'm not in Greensville, but I'm like. I can see the smoke from here. That's the thing. Ah. I can see your house is on fire. Oh, yeah, that's a comment. It's California. All right, you guys have a good weekend. You too, man. When did you last play, Civ? Hey, guys. It's been probably, I don't know, five, six years. That's what I think. Really? Like, I don't know. I learned a lot from the game, weirdly, because I would, like, get really invested into, like, these nations or whatever and then go out of my Way to, like, look out, like, their history and know more about them. That's good. You know, that's one of the things about showing videos about history, like, you know, Gandhi or something like that, that are not. They're not really historical videos, but they get you interested in it. You know, I. I watched a series on hbo, I think it was HBO or Showtime, called the Tudors. Right. And it was almost completely false. Right. Historically completely inaccurate. It's almost more like early modern pornography than anything else. Right. But I learned a lot because I would be looking up to different people and the different things. Right. But that's why sometimes having that not historically correct stuff in popular culture is helpful because it helps us to learn things about what really happened. Yeah. It's also helpful to let a bunch of hours pass by that could have been used for more productive. Oh, yeah, I used to. I gotta tell you, I would get started and then it would be like 3 o' clock in the morning and I had to go to work at 6. Right. And I'd be like, okay, well, just one more turn. But, you know, at the end of the game, a turn takes an hour and a half. Yeah. Anyway, so go. Go place it. Actually, I'll tell you what. I. I was. I was kind of. What's the word I'm looking for? I was kind of obsessed with another game called no Man's Sky. Oh. But I. I haven't. Yeah. Well, I bought it when it first came out and it really sucked. But they've got. They've made it a lot better. And I was. I was really into it for a while, but I haven't played that either. The thing about no Man's sky is you can play it without, you know, without using weapons and stuff like that. Oh, cool. Yeah, I heard. All right. A different game called, like, Humankind. I guess it just came out or something. From what I understand, it's just like civilization pretty much. Yeah. Sounds the exact same thing. I know that they're pushing it really hard, though. All right, you guys. Well, have a good one. Don't do lots of stuff that I wouldn't do.