It's Dalal Mujah. Daniel. I. Dalal. Yes. I. I think the guy won. I. Actually, to be honest with you, I. I hadn't. I. I don't know anything about Chinese music, and I don't know whether that's a good song or not. I. I thought it was okay, but I, you know, I always want to try to play something a little thematic before the class starts, so that's why we got that one. Any questions or comments about anything that I can help you with before we get started? I haven't actually looked at your discussion yet. I've been working on something else, but I guess you guys are all okay. It would be nice if you guys could turn your cameras on. I know that you really don't want to, but it just makes it so much nicer to be able to see you guys. And so where we go from here? I'm going to do a lecture today about East Asia, and I'm doing the best I can. I'm going to tell you East Asia or any of Asia. It's not really my strong suit, but I think that I'll be able to get us up to the point where we need to be actually next week is when we're going to start talking about the modern era. Okay. So one thing that we didn't really talk about up to this point has been that the era that we're looking at right now in terms of Western history is, Is what we call the Medieval period. And we'll talk a little bit more about this timeline next week when we start talking about Europe. But the. So what we've been doing is laying a foundation for what was the world like when the Europeans came out of the Middle Ages. And again, we're not doing that just because we want to be Eurocentric. We're doing it because it was the, the emergence of Europe and its rise to power that really set the stage for all the things that are going to be happening in the next 500 years or so, which is what we're going to be looking at. Right? So. So that's where we're at right now. We're going to finish East Asia today, and then on Wednesday, Thursday, we're going to talk about the. The Southern Asian empires, the Mughal, the Safavid, and the Ottoman empires. And then next week we're going to start with the conquest of the Americas. All right, so any questions, comments about any of that? Okay. All right, so here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to share the screen Then hopefully. Now do you guys see the slide set? I can't see you, so I don't know. Hold on a second. I think I know why. All right. All right. Now I can see you. Okay, so here we go. What we're going to start with China. And some of this we've already talked about because we're going to start with the Mongol Empire. Okay. China. There's been a high level of civilization in China going back to a long, long time before what we call the, before the common era. But we're going to pick it up the story with the mongols in about 13th century. Right. And the first thing I want to mention about China is. And we're going to see a video about this later in the course, right? But when you think about China, this is generally the area that we talk about. It's, it kind of grows and, and shrinks. But the, the, the Chinese had to contend with threats from what we would consider basically two coasts, right? And the, obviously the one coast is this coast on the China Sea. And the main problems that they had there in China all the way up until the 17th century, that's the 1600s, was pirates. Okay. There was a lot of piracy and raiding along the coast. After or beginning in the 17th century, China starts to be penetrated by Europeans, European explorers, starting with the Portuguese and the Dutch and then the English. And that's going to become an increasing threat to China. Okay. But that will really start in the 18th and 19th centuries. Okay. The other coast is actually a, it's, it's a. It's not really. It's kind of like the, the Sahara Desert. It's not a water coast, but there's this area here is known as the step S T E ppe step and the, this is the home of a number of different, a number of different nomadic tribes. And this is where the Mongols came from. Right. So, so when, when the Mongols conquered China, they had actually, they had actually conquered a number of other things before China. Right. When the Mongols conquered China, one of the things that happens is that they establish, they overthrow an old dynasty, actually two old dynasties, the Jin and the Song, and they establish a new one, which is called the Yuan. And again, keep, keep in mind, I apologize if I mispronounce any of this stuff, but it's the best I can do, actually. Right. So when we talk about the Mongol Empire in China, we're talking about what this is called, the Yuan Dynasty, right. And here's a map of the, the extent of the Mongol Empire, the Yuan Empire. It's this red line here in, in China. Okay, so the, the thing about when the Mongols took control of China, they suppressed Chinese political and cultural traditions. Well, what does that mean? It means that there, that China was built on what we would consider to be a, an absolute monarchy, but it was supported by a bureaucracy. And this bureaucracy was, it was kind of like a civil service. It was kind of like the civil service in the United States. Because in, in the civil service in the United States, you don't, you don't inherit your position in the civil service. You have to go through training and you have to take tests. And this was the way it was in China. So the people who actually administered China were very well prepared to do it. They were very good administrators. And so that's kind of the political Chinese political culture, the cultural, the way that people live was based on what's called Confucianism. Okay, And I'm going to go into that a little bit, but again, this is not my strong suit. Okay, But Confucianism is, it's not really a religion the way we would think about religion, but it actually has two aspects. And one of the aspects is how do you interact with other people? Okay, so basically then, in that aspect of. Promotes the hierarchical structure of China where if you're, for example, if you're a farmer, then you get your dignity from being a farmer, and you would always want to be a farmer. You would never want to go to community college and become a nurse or something like that. And you respect the people that are in the tier above you, going all the way up to the emperor. Okay? And then also you respect your peers. Okay? So Confucianism is a way of acknowledging the dignity of other people in society in order to minimize, or I should say it the other way around in order to create harmony. Because as long as people are. Respect each other, then there's going to be harmony. And that maintains what we call a harmonious state. Okay, so. So that's the one aspect of Confucianism. Confucianism. Sorry. Although for some of you it might be confusion, but the other aspect of it is. So let me just say it this way before I go on, that that aspect of Confucianism is very conservative, right? If you just stay with that aspect of Confucianism, nothing will ever change. All right? But the other aspect of Confucianism is more of an inner, inner dialogue, I guess you could say, or an inner state of being where you not only perform these actions, but you truly feel these actions Right. That you don't just treat people with dignity, but you actually, you actually revere them. You actually treat people with dignity because you really believe in the dignity of the person, that sort of thing. Right? So it's a way, it's a way of actually giving a spiritual content to the actions that are called for in Confucianism. That sounds, that sounds. Are there any questions about that? You guys get that? Any. So here's, here's one of the things that I think that, that we can take away from this, that will help us to consider the difference between Chinese culture and Western culture. And that is that Chinese culture is very oriented on the community, and our culture in the west is oriented on the individual. So when you look at our Western culture, it ends up being really, it's all about me, what do I get out of this, how am I going to be able to survive? And that sort of thing. And we sometimes revere our close families and community, but. But it's not like in China where the community is basically everything. Right? And again, this is maybe a bad example, but one way I've noticed it is that if I assign a, if I make an assignment to a class and there's a group of Chinese students, because there are students from China in college here, right? If there's, if there's a number of Chinese students in the class, what will happen is that they will all do the work together and they will all turn in the same work. And then I will look at that and say, oh, that's plagiarism. Right? And then that's how I realized that they're much more community oriented than we are, because as Westerners, they. We tend to turn in our own work and we'll stand and fall on our own merits rather than in the merits of the community. Does that make sense? You guys? Questions? Comments about this at all? Okay, well, the reason why I'm saying this and kind of making a big deal about it is because Confucianism really still is the basis for Chinese culture, even though the practice of Confucianism ended with the, with the end of the empire, which we'll talk a little bit about in a few minutes. Right? But, but Confucianism remains that. That cultural aspect of Chineseness is still built into Chinese culture today. Does that make sense to you guys? Questions? Comments about this? Does anybody actually know what I'm talking about? Or is this, Are you talking. If you're saying the way that, yeah, the east and west is the way they act as cultures and Civilizations. Yeah, I understand. Okay. So now one of the things that we're going to see. I'm glad you said that. Thank you. One of the things that we're going to see is that during this period of time, community was much more important everywhere. Not just in China, but everywhere in the world. Right. Including Europe. Okay. But it's going to be a philosophical shift in Europe that we call the Enlightenment that will. That will diminish the importance of the community and enhance the importance of the individual. Okay. So that's why we ended up with such an individualistic culture today. We'll talk about that later. All right, Questions? Comments about this? Okay, so the Mongols, when they came to power, they said, we're going to get rid of all that and we're going to rule. The people that we're going to put in charge of ruling China are going to be people from Persia and. And from the Ottoman Empire, from Turkey. And so they will really alienate the Chinese people. Okay. And because of that, their empire is not going to last much longer than the Mongol Empire. Okay. One of the reasons why there is a. One of the reasons why the Yuan Dynasty became stressed was because there were a number of natural disasters, just like it says here, including drought, cold and plague that occurred during these periods, actually during the Yuan and the Ming Dynasty, which we're going to talk about next. Right. And so one of the things that I found very interesting was that these climate changes, these natural disasters that are caused by climate change were very stressful on. On Chinese society. It caused a lot of disruption in Chinese society. So. So one of the things that I've done. Let me just stop this for a second here. One of the things that I've done is. You're looking at me right now. Right. But I'm not looking at you. Okay? One of the things I've done. That's not it here. Okay, so here's our. Here's our. Our canvas page. Right. I put a. There's. There's a document, an article on. I think it's Cambridge University website, and it's about shining. It's about climate change during the. Yeah. During the Yuan and Ming dynasties. Right. So there's that article. And then I've actually made an assignment which is an extra credit assignment. Right. So I made an assignment that you read the document and you can answer these questions and then you can get some extra credit. And let me just mention to you guys that it never hurts to get the extra credit. It can only help you. Okay? So you just. It's up to you. It's extra so you don't have to do it. I will say this, though. When you read this document, when you read the assignment, if you do, right, it's, you know, it's, it's a, it's an academic document, and a lot of it really isn't, doesn't really, isn't really, isn't really significant for what we intend to use it for. What I'd really like for you to do if you do read this document is just focus on how these, these climate change incidents actually affected Chinese society and forget about all the, there's, there's like a bunch of different tables and, you know, a lot of data and stuff like that. All that stuff is really inconsequent, sequential to us. It's just a matter of what's, what was, what was the outcome, all right? And I thought that would be a good exercise for you guys, because that will, that will, we can use that to think about what the crisis of climate change that we're, that we're experiencing today. Okay, let's see. I'm gonna go back if I can find you guys. All right, Any questions so far? Let me just mention, if you, if you have a question, you know, speak up. I, I, I'm not really looking at you guys all the time, so, so I don't know if you raised your hand or anything, so you just have to speak up and I'd be happy to answer your questions. All right, that's good. All right, so now one of the outcomes of these disasters, and then also the outcome of the suppression of Chinese culture was that it led eventually to rebellions, and there was what they call the Red Turban Rebellion. Does anybody want to guess why they called the Red Turban Rebellion? Their turbans were red. Exactly. That's exactly right. Okay, so there was a Red Turban Rebellion. But what it does is it, it makes the people of China feel that they have lost the Mandate of Heaven. All right? So the people who rule China rule China because they have the Mandate of Heaven. All right, what that means, really, I, I'm not really qualified to say other than that if the, if the rulers of China have the Mandate of Heaven, then China is prosperous and peaceful and harmonious. And if they lose it, then China becomes under a lot of social stress. Okay? And so what happens is that when it becomes apparent to the people that the Mongols or the Yuan Dynasty has lost the Mandate of Heaven, they're driven out of China and the, the new dynasty that replaces them is called the Ming Dynasty. Okay, any questions, comments about this? Nope. Okay, I'm sorry. No. I said no. Okay, so again, it was founded 1368 by the Emperor Hongwu. He drove the Mongols out of China. And then the Ming Dynasty, which is going to last for quite some period, Right. Is going to be a reaction to the Mongol rule. So one of the things that we. That one of the things that happens is that the. They restore the examination system for the bureaucracy. They restore the kind of Chineseness of the administration, they restore Confucianism, and they also become increasingly concerned about invasion from this northern coast that I've talked about. Right. Remember I talked about the two coasts of China, and one of the coasts is this the step S T E P P E. Right. So. So what they do actually is they spend 100 years and almost bankrupt the treasury building a giant wall, which you guys have heard of as the Great Wall. All right, now let me just mention to you that the Great Wall was already there before the Ming, but it was the Ming who extended it and fortified it and made it a national priority. So you can see from that that the Ming Dynasty thought that the way to maintain their Chinese identity was to. Was to. To force their way, force themselves for others from being able to. To even enter China. Okay. And China really kind of becomes a closed society. All right. Very suspicious of the outside world. All right, questions, comments about this? During the Ming Dynasty. Now, here's an interesting thing though, because during the Ming Dynasty, really kind of closer to the beginning of the Ming Dynasty, there was a. One of the emperors decided that he wanted to bring more areas under his control or under. Or make these areas tributaries of his right. And so he chooses a Muslim servant named Zheng He. And Zheng he builds an enormous fleet of 300 ships. And some of these ships are just really huge and carry all kinds of goods. And he makes a number of voyages, seven different voyages around Southeast Asia and the Indian Ocean and as far as Africa, Arabia, and then as far as Africa. Right. And what he does is he brings many of these territories under the tributary. Under the as tributaries as to the Ming Dynasty. All right, so I'm going to go ahead and I got a little video. It's like five minutes long. I'm going to show it to you. And then after I do that, I'm going to. We'll talk some more about it. Okay, so let me just do this. Nearly 100 years before European sailors crossed the Atlantic, the Chinese servant Zhang he assembled the largest fleet of ships ever seen and set out to explore the world. So given the scale of his historic achievement, why is so little known about Zheng he today? Zheng he was born with the name Ma he in the Yunnan province of China in 1371. He was Muslim and his father and grandfather were important leaders of the Mongol Yuan dynasty. But shortly after his birth, power shifted in China and was taken over by a new dynasty, the Ming. Ming soldiers captured the young Ma he and handed him over as a servant to the emperor's son. Court life during the Ming dynasty was filled with music, poetry, painting and calligraphy. Umahe helped organize elaborate events such as hunts and military displays, Serving the prince well and becoming one of his closest advisors. The prince about to become emperor gave his servant a new Zhang He. The new emperor wanted to establish far reaching trust trade routes, collect taxes from distant territories that none had visited before, and demonstrate the power of the Chinese empire to all the world. He instructed Zheng he to build a fleet unlike any seen before and to venture out. As his envoy, Zheng he oversaw the assembly of a massive fleet of 317 ships, including 62 enormous treasure ships measuring more than 400ft long. Some ships carried horses and troops, others carried fresh water and supplies. 28,000 soldiers, scholars, diplomats and builders were involved. Zheng he's first voyage lasted from 1405 to 1407. He traveled west to many towns and ports in India, trading and establishing diplomatic relations. He and his crew even captured a notorious criminal, Chan Tzui, one of the most feared pirates of Southeast Asia, and brought him back to China for trial. Word of the fleet and Zheng he's heroism spread as he sailed on six more voyages. In 1413, he traveled all the way to the Arabian peninsula and around the Horn of Africa. Along the way, he visited more than 25 countries and returned to China with exotic creatures like giraffes and camels that few in China, if any, had ever seen. His voyages solidified Chinese trade and political dominance from northeastern China to southeastern Africa, even bringing foreign diplomats to meet with the Chinese emperor. But by the mid-1400s, China had spent an enormous sum of money on military battles and massive building projects like the Great Wall of China and the Forbidden City. Zheng he's expeditions were suddenly viewed as extravagant and wasteful, especially by elite scholars of the philosopher Confucius, who felt China should isolate itself from outside influence. By imperial decree, the great navy was dismantled and the construction of new ships was forbidden. This doctrine was so forceful that the details of Zheng he's exposed expeditions were removed from the official imperial record. Even his Death on his seventh and final mission was largely missing from accounts of the time. Over 28 years, Zheng he had traveled more than 31,000 miles and visited over 30 countries in South Asia and Africa. His fleets were larger and grander than any other in the history of sea exploration. Not until Britain's grandson fleet of World War I would such an impressive fleet again be assembled. Yet to this day, Zhang he remains an elusive figure in history. His accomplishments and contributions were nearly forgotten in China for hundreds of years, and he was barely known at all to the Western world. His explorations may have been powered by an emperor's vanity, but they resulted in the spread of Islam and Chinese colonization throughout vast areas of Southeast Asia. Well, what do you guys think? Any comments about that? Is that something that anybody. You guys. I'm sorry, is that something any of you guys have ever heard of before? No, I don't remember hearing from him. I think you mentioned him earlier before. I may have. I've known about him since I was in graduate school. But that's. You know, what's interesting is that nobody even knew about this, his. His expeditions, even in China until 19. Until 1930s. Right. So it's really been kind of recently in terms of scholarship that his contributions came to light. One of the interesting things that I found, I actually read an article not too long ago about Zheng he or Zheng he, and there is some speculation that he may have discovered America. And the reason why is because this map has been found, and you can see on this map that America is there. So the speculation is that America was discovered on one of the voyages of Zhengha, the academic. The kind of scholarly consensus on this is that this map actually isn't from the period that the person who's putting forth this theory says it's from, but it's from about 100 years later, and that this was a map that was influenced by the Spanish because the Spanish actually eventually made their way across the Pacific here to China. And so I think that the consent, the historical consensus is that Zheng he did not discover America. But what it does do is it shows you how there are many questions in history that remain unanswered. And I think that it tells us something about the nature of history, because I think that many of us tend to think that history is a kind of a fixed thing that, you know, it's. It's pinned down by names and dates and. And what happened. But in reality, there's. There's so much that that happened that was never really recorded, but it leaves a lot of holes. It leaves a lot of questions. All right, anyway. Questions. Comments about any of this. Okay, last thing then there was what happens with the. The, the administration. There was the emperor, but the emperor eventually wasn't ruling the. The empire. Instead he was kind of walled up in the Forbidden City, which is a big, huge palace in Beijing, and that he was basically just enjoying himself. And the empire was ruled by the scholars, but the scholars were basically in it for themselves. And so, so what ends up happening is that the, the imperial government in China becomes corrupt and because of that, the people suffer and the people then start to believe that they have lost the mandate of heaven. And then there's also that the issue of climate change and the stresses that that puts on Chinese society. So that's something you can actually look at if you want to. But at any rate, that's going to bring about the end of the Ming dynasty. Questions? Comments? All right, so. So towards the end. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Nearly 100 years before European sailors crossed the Atlantic, the Chinese servant Zheng he assailed assembled the largest fleet of ships ever. Sorry about that guy. No problem. So what was this thing? So towards the end, the Emperor. Towards. So did the emperor lock himself up in the forbidding city or like. No, he didn't lock himself up. He just didn't pay any attention to administration. He had other people doing it for him and he thought it was a lot more fun to. To drink and have parties and stuff like that. Focused on a life of luxury. What's that? He focused on a life of luxury. Exactly. Kind of like we would do if we could get away with it. Yeah, maybe not. I don't know, but. All right, any other questions? That's a good question. Any other questions? All right, so we're going to look at then the last dynasty that we're going to talk about really was the last dynasty in China. It's called the Qing Dynasty. I know it looks like queuing, but it's actually Qing, otherwise known as the Manchu Dynasty. Right. And here's how this comes about this, I think this maps in your book. Right. At any rate, the Manchus were a tribe that came here. There were a number of different nomadic tribes that lived in this area, like the Mongols. Right. And eventually the Manchus were able to conquer the Mongols and also conquer much of the Ming empire that was outside the wall, on the other side of the wall. Right. Which is one of the reasons why the Ming Dynasty was stressed, because the Manchus were putting pressure on. And then what happens Is that the, because of the corruption and because of the stresses that are put on, on Chinese society, there are rebellions, There is a rebellion in China and the rebellion actually goes and is able to take the Ming capital at Beijing. All right, now then after that, the, the new, they tried it to this guy here, Li Xingcheng tries to establish a new dynasty and he tries to then send an army to defeat the, the Ming, the dynastic army, the, the Ming army in the north. But the general of the Ming army opens up the wall and allows the Manchus into China. And the Manchus are able to put down the rebellion and take Beijing. And by doing that, they claim the mandate of heaven. And so that's going to be the establishment then of the Qing dynasty. And then you can see on this map that over the next hundred years or so, the Qing Empire will expand to pretty much the, the extent of where China is today. All right, questions? Comments about any of this? Now, here's the thing about the Qing Dynasty. The Qing again were foreign race, but unlike the Mongols, they adopted Chinese ways. So that's what's called. They became sinicized. Where did I put that here? Yeah, they became synthesized. Okay. Synthesized means that they, they ruled. They, they really kept the social structure and the political structure of China and they were able to create an incredibly harmonious, peaceful, prosperous empire. Okay. That lasted again up until the, really the middle of the 17th into the 18th century. Right. But the problem that's going to happen and, and this won't really happen until the 19th century. Let me just tell you that the, the Qing Dynasty theoretically or, or officially lasts in China until 1911. Okay. So it starts in 1644, whatever it is, and it goes until 1911. But during the 19th century, China is going to be pressured by Europeans. Okay. And the real pressure for Europeans is going to be or from Europeans. And we need to keep this in mind because it's really one of the themes of our course, right. And that is that the Europeans were able to modernize. All right. Now, so when we think about European timeline that we're going to talk about starting next week, right. When modernization followed the Middle Ages. So we can really divide time from the Western point of view into three eras. The classical era, which is the Greeks and the Romans, and in the medieval period are the Middle Ages, and then the modern era. And so we're really, most of our, our story is going to be in the modern era. So really when the Europeans come into contact and start to stress China, it's during The Qing Dynasty. All right, okay. But now the reason why modernization is important is because it is what gives Europe its power. Okay? Europe becomes industrial, industrialized, and is able to develop powerful weapons that the rest of the. That the rest of the world doesn't have. And we saw that when we talked about Africa last week, right, that the African king, the Songhai Empire, was stressed by European weapons, okay? And so then when we look at the 19th century, which will be coming up sometime soon, right, we're going to see that the challenge of modernization was you either had to be, as a country, as a. As a place, you either had to become modernized or you would become colonized. Right. To modernize or be colonized. Right. The problem in China, in Qing China, was that they couldn't imagine modernizing from their point of view, they were already perfect. They had a perfect society, and they couldn't imagine doing anything to make it better. They couldn't imagine reforming it. How can you reform perfection? And so, and so what ends up happening is that China falls behind, okay, in terms of military power, and then because of that, in terms of prosperity. And. And, well, basically that. Okay, so now when we look at. One of the things that's just incredibly interesting, but sad, tragic in a way, is that if you look at most of the period of time that we've been talking about up to now, China was the center of the world. China was the most powerful, the most prosperous, the most advanced, technologically advanced area of the world. And that's pretty much still the same way that it is at the beginning of the 19th century. But by the end of the 19th century, China has fallen so far behind the Europeans that the Europeans carve it up like a melon, as they. They call it. Carved like a melon. A. Carved like a melon. What. How do you carve a melon? What does that mean? If you think about it, if you. If you carve a melon, it's really soft, right? It's big, but it's really soft. And that's what happens because they could not modernize. All right, you guys with me. Questions, comments about this? This is because of the idea of the status quo, right? It's partially that, but it's also because the administration becomes so entrenched that they see reform as a threat to their power and livelihood. So, any other questions? All right, so. So anyway, that's. That's kind of the. That's something we're going to be looking at again later, but I wanted to kind of bring it up here because that's really kind of, in a nutshell, the story of the last 500 years. Okay, so now the last thing then that I want to talk about is Japan. I'm going to talk briefly about Japan. Japan was like everywhere else in the world, a number of different little areas, right? Kingdoms, I guess you could say, whatever, right. But it becomes united under an empire who actually it becomes united under the shoguns. Shoguns were military governors, kind of. And the main. The shogun who was able to complete the unification of Japan was named Tokugawa. So the era that we're basically talking about now from 1600 to about the middle of the 19th century, is called the Tokugawa Shogunate. And the shoguns ruled from Edo, which is Tokyo today. You may not know this, but the reason why it's Tokyo is because the old imperial capital was in Kyoto. And did you notice that Tokyo is Tokyo. See. Anyway, so she wanted something. Anyway, at any rate, the shoguns ruled. They were very. They had, they maintained a very tight control over society. Okay, There was an emperor, but the emperor was just a figurehead. The emperor did not really rule anything. What's going to happen that will change in the 19th century in what becomes known as the Meiji Restoration. Okay, but for now, to say that the emperor is just a figurehead, okay? And then the, the emperor ruled through what we call the daimyo. These are elite families. And the samurai, okay, Samurais are the war kind of the warlords. Okay, this is warlord, in case you didn't know. Anyway, Sorry. At any rate, the, the, the again, the idea of social order was maintained through the promotion of Confucianism, like in China. China for the Japanese was like Greece and Rome for Europe, Okay. It was the mother civilization in a way. Right? Very highly revered. And so Confucianism becomes a. It becomes, it's promoted in Japan under the Tokugawa Shogunate. Even though in Japan most of the people are either Buddhist or else they are. They follow an indigenous religion called Shintoism. At any rate, the point here is that this Confucian order actually does maintain harmony in Japan. And as a result of that, Japan, again, it becomes very closed in. And the Japanese would not allow foreigners to actually penetrate their markets or, or any of that, that sort of thing. So we see then in the 17th century, the Dutch and then later the English will, well, actually starting with the Portuguese, right, will try to, to. To open up Japan to trade with Japan, but the Japanese will. Will keep their barriers up and minimize interaction with foreigners, and they won't allow any kind of foreign culture into Japan. And in fact, you know, there were Christian missionaries that tried to go into Japan and they were massacred. Right? So the Japanese didn't want any outside influence whatsoever. All right? So what ends up happening is that it is so orderly that it becomes in a way, too orderly. It's kind of like. I don't know if you guys are familiar with atrophy, right? Atrophy is if you don't, if you're laying in bed or whatever, your muscles will shrink, you'll lose your strength, Right, because you're not using them. Same thing happens in Japan. The people who are actually the ruling class, the daimyo and the shoguns end up becoming bureaucrats. And the economic sector is going to come forward during this period of time. So the merchants become more powerful than the so called rulers. Many of the rulers end up going into debt to the merchants. Right? And in the end, what ends up happening is that Japan essentially becomes very corrupt. And people know that. People feel that China is being run by a corrupt government and that will lead to a rebellion. Okay, this rebellion happens in 1857, I think, or something like that. We'll talk more about it later. Right, but the main cause of the rebellion wasn't internal. The main cause of the rebellion was the, the penetration of Japan by Westerners, starting with the United States and then other Western powers moving in. And they felt that their, their culture and their identity was threatened. Why? Because they had seen what had happened in China and they did not want that to happen in Japan. So the story of what happened in China is the inspiration for Japanese leaders to force modernization. So where China couldn't see the point in modernizing and as a result of that, became weakened by the west or in relation to the West, Japan realized that the only way they could actually keep from ending up under the rule of Europeans was to modernize. And they did. They did. The Meiji, what they call the Meiji Restoration. They accomplished in 40 years what it took 150 years for the English to accomplish and industrialization and modernization. Right, so what ends up happening then is that, you guys, time we get to the beginning of the 20th century, Japan is, is very, very, it's modernized and it's a very powerful colonial rival to the Europeans. Okay. And so that what we end up with then is at some point we ask the question in Japan, right? Should we remain just Japan? But if we're going to be an industrial power, we need access to resources. Should we become a colonial power? And their, their sort of their begin. Their. Their decision to become a colonial power will eventually thrust them into the necessity of World War II. All right, so. So that's. That's my story, and I'm sticking with it. Any questions? Comments about any of this? Well, I'm done then. Oh, I gotta call the rule. I'm sorry. I'm. I'm done. But I have to call the rule because the. Today's census. I know that sounds really dramatic, but it just means if anybody's not. So I have a question, Professor. Okay, go ahead. So basically, the way that Japan is, like, so modernized and like, the technological advancements that they have today, like, especially in Tokyo with, like, all the new, like, stuff that they always have coming out, is based off of these events. Well, it's. What happens is that China, it becomes industrialized. But China is devastated by World War. I'm sorry. Japan is devastated by World War II. And after World War II, the United States helps them to rebuild their industry. That's how they become a kind of an economic powerhouse. After World War II. Okay. Yeah. Because aren't they, like, the leading, like, manufacturers for like, almost half of our stuff? They were at one point. I'm not sure if that's still true. I know a lot of our stuff. I mean, if you go on Amazon, everything you buy there comes from China. Right. So I think China is actually catching up to them. But yeah, a lot of that manufacturing. Well, in, like in China, in Japan and Korea, their industrial output was based on support from the United States after World War II and China, their economic advancement has come under reform of the Communist Party. Right. So they're still communists, but they're also capitalists, which is kind of. It's not really something that theoretically should work, but it does. Right. Question comments about this. All right, so let me go ahead and I gotta. I gotta call the rule here. Just take a second here to do this. It Friday. Okay. So today is seventh. All right. Sammy Aguilar. Here. Sammy Aguilar. Okay, you guys got to speak up, because I'm not watching. Vanessa Alvarez. Here. Alec Bennett. Here. Austin Jor. Is that right? Austin? Austin. Okay. Seamus Butler. Here. Okay. Clara Connors. Claire. Claire Connors? Here. Aaron Quadros? Here. Eric Diaz. Yep. Here. Samaya Edwards. Here. Patricia Felix. Here. Elvin Thurman. Here. Melanie Flaherty? Here. Brian Gleason. Ryan Gleason. Here. Sorry, I wasn't unmuted. There you go. Here. Okay. Deanna Hilliker. Here. Lionel Huerta. Here. Francisco Yasco. Here. Is that right? Yeah. Hosto. Yeah. You said it right. Luis Jimenez. Here. James Knight. Here. Christian Lansing. Christian Lansan. Leopoldo Larios. Here. Oscar Lopez. Here. Cassandra. Cassandra Mesa Barajas. Here. Diego Pepin. I'm here. Luis Pitney. Here. Laura Scott. Here. David Silva. Here. Silas Thorp. Here. Bobby Vanessi. Here. Esteban Villaros. Here. And Melanie? Melanie Zacharias? Here. Okay, you guys, great. There was a. A great showing, especially after a holiday weekend. So let me just ask you this before I let you go. It's a little bit early, so I got a couple minutes. What did you guys think about the movie that you watch? I learned stuff. That was a great answer, by the way. I learned stuff. Well, that's good. I mean, that's why I came with you. Short and simple. The. The art. I didn't know about the art, which is very interesting. Anybody? Those heads were. Those heads were wild. Like, how intricate and how they spot on, you know, Were it actually a human face? And you can tell that was a human face. Whereas, like, other stuff that we've studied, maybe in other history classes, the art seems so far behind that. Yeah. Anybody else? You feel like it was worthwhile watching that video? Yeah, actually, yeah, I think that was worthwhile. Why do you think it was worthwhile? Because I would have never known about. What's his name? Zhang. Ha. Oh, yeah. Well, that was. I wasn't talking about that video. I was talking about the Africa empire. Oh, okay. Never mind. So I was gonna say it seems like. And I did, like, a little poll amongst my friends now that I'm taking these history classes, but, like, we in the United States do a pretty bad job about African history. Kind of gets lost in the shuffle. Like, you do like, like a little, like, African map, like, maybe when you're pretty young, and then pretty much everything gets lost. Like, I don't have any recollection of my African history from throughout my years of studying. Yeah. I can tell you in my years of study when I graduated from high school, granted this is back in the middle of the last century, but I learned absolutely nothing about the history of Africa other than Egypt. Right. Ancient Egypt. Okay. And part of the reason for that is because in the era of color colonization, which is really the 19th century, Europeans came to regard Africa as entirely inhabited by savages. And because of that, there wasn't any history. There was a. The very, very prominent British historian Arthur Toynbee said Africa has no history. Right. But you can see that. That arrogance, that colonial arrogance really erases some astounding, fantastic stories. You follow what I'M saying. And that's why I think that it's important for us to. I mean, even though we just are very kind of skimming across the surface, at least there's something there to kind of spark our imagination other than just to get. You know, Africa is all jungles and tigers and people running around with spheres and stuff like that. Right? Okay. Yeah. In the video they mentioned how when the someone. I don't remember their name, but it was like a someone from Europe when they discovered the heads, they claimed it was Atlantis because they couldn't possibly be from. Yeah, the natives. Exactly. Exactly. And that sort of thinking becomes embedded in a culture. So like Western culture, American culture, that thinking that Africans. Africa is a dark continent full of savages is so deeply embedded in us that we don't even know we have it a lot of times. And. And we'll talk more about that later. Okay. So I'm not going to keep you guys. I already called the rule. I hope you have a good rest of the week and I'll see you on Thursday. Thanks, Professor. Thank you. All right. You're welcome. Thank you. Live long and prospect. Thank you. You can do it, Bobby. There you go. Professor? Yes? I had a comment about the. The video we're supposed to watch. I try to go on the library for Mesa Library and it will let me log in. It says my id, everything is fine, but every time I try to use my last name, it won't let me log in, so I can't watch the video. So. Did you talk to Library about that? Yeah, I tried calling them and they said they were trying to help me figure it out, but I never got a word back. Okay, I'll try it again, but as of right now, I can't log into the Mesa Library. Yeah, I can't. I mean, I can. I. I can tell you where you can actually watch it is on Amazon. Amazon. Okay. Yeah, but I think you have to pay. Yeah, right. Unless you have Amazon prime, you have to pay. Okay. If you have Amazon prime, you can get it for free. Okay. All right. Thank you so much. I was just wondering where I could. Because I want to do my assignment, but I can't log into the Mesa. Right. Well, I'm sorry about that, but, you know, check on that because you're going to be doing some other videos too, as we go through the course. Okay. All right. Thanks so much. Have a good day. All right. You too. Thanks for letting me know about that. Of course.