Sam There were three men came out of the west Their fortunes for to try and these three men made a solemn vow John Barley Corn must die They've plowed, they've seen so Dave had rode him in threw cls up on his head and these three men made a solemn bow. John Barley corn was dead. Sam. They've let him lie for a very long time Till the rains from heaven did fall and little Sir John sprung up his head and so amazed them all they've let him stay and to miss a day till it look both pale and gone and little Sir John's grown a long, long beard and so become a sa with the sight so sharp to cut him off at the knee they rolled him and tied him by the way Serving him most barously They've hired men with a sharp his fox who crept him to the hall and the loner he has served him worse than that for he's bound into the car sa till they came unto a barn and there they made a solemn molly corn They've hired men with a crowd resets to go Caught his skin from bone and the miller he has sucked him worse than that for he's ground him between two stones and his brandy in the glass. And little sur the hun of the fox, you're so lovely to blow his soul. Did you guys like my song? That was a pretty cool. Yes. Do you know why I played that song today? Because, well, I mean, I saw a night in the. Yeah. Screen. So it's probably like medieval Europe. Well, it actually sounds medieval. It's actually a song from the 60s, but. But I thought it sounded medieval, so I thought, well, I'll play that one today. So anyway, we are going to talk about a little bit about the Middle Ages and we're going to talk about the beginning of the modern period. I'll explain to you what that is a little bit later, but for now what you probably should know is that the focus of our study is going to be on the modern period. Okay? So just keep that in mind and I'll tell you. I'll lay that out for you later. All right? Questions, Comments about anything. Let me show you a couple of things that we should look at that we've got coming up. All right, so you see our canvas, canvas, screen. Okay. So now what we have coming up is these things were all from last week, right. And you do have another exam that's due by Thursday. This is where we are today. And then Thursday we're going to talk about the so called discovery of America. And then on Tuesday, we're going to talk about these documents. What's in these documents are essentially a report by a Spaniard who was with Cortez and a report by Native Americans of the meeting of Cortez and Montezuma in. I think it was 1516. Right. So the reason why we're looking at this is because we want to consider how history is produced. I don't mean how history is made, because we're all making history right now. But what I mean is how do we produce our telling of what happened as historians? So, so part of this course is going to be learn how to do historical methods. Like, for example, when you take a math course, you don't just listen to the professor talk about stories about math, you actually learn how to do math. And so one of the things that we'll do here is we'll learn how to do history, at least on the basic level. All right, Any questions about that coming up? That's from today is living. Okay, so then the next one, it's actually, I think it's two weeks from Thursday, we're going to be talking about the second Treatise on Civil Government by John Locke, which was written in 1689. And this. Let me just open this up here. Oh, I didn't put the document, did I? I have to remember the document. Right, but the, well, the document, you, you probably read the, you probably bought the book at the bookstore, right? Did you guys buy the book at the bookstore? Yeah. Okay, so there is an online version of Gutenberg version that you can do if you don't want to. If you, if you don't want to buy the book. Although the book's really cheap from what I understand. But anyway, I have a link to that, but I haven't. I forgot to put it up here. So I'll put it in here. What you need to read out of the book is chapters one through five and 19. So in terms of the number of pages you're going to read, it's not very big. It's. It's pretty short. But it's not very easy to read because it's written in 17th century English. And so you're going to have to spend a little time with it if you're going to get. If you're going to get very much out of it. So I'm just telling you that now. So you have about two and a half weeks to work on this. And I would go ahead and at least start on it as soon as you can because. Because you'll find that it's not. It's not an easy reading. It's kind of a difficult read. And then the reason why I want you to read this in the 17th century original is because I want you to actually interact with historical sources. I don't want you to. To read what somebody else says that the source says. I want you to read the source and then we have to work from there. Okay. Any questions about that? Questions? Comments? So. So then just answer these questions. There's actually quite a few questions, but it walks through the presentation that, that Locke or the. The argument that Locke makes. All right. Questions? Comments about any of this? Nope. Anybody good? Everybody's good. Okay, so. So then there's going to be more stuff I'll put in here. We're going to have other lectures in here after than this, right? One on the scientific revolution and one on the Enlightenment. And then we'll talk about Locke. The reason why where Locke is in our study is as an example of enlightenment thinking. Okay. So. So that's where we're at now. Anyway. Questions, Comments? Everybody's doing well. Is there anything I can help you with? Keep in mind that I'll hang out here after the. After our meeting for our office hours. The office hours that are published in the syllabus aren't really applicable because I don't really have any other classes, so. So I'll just hang out here afterwards if you want to talk to me about anything. Oh, yeah. I'm sorry. That brings me one other thing that hopefully you got the message this weekend about late work, because I've had some people ask me for extensions and I don't give extensions. The. The. All the assignments that are. Well, actually, let's say it this way. There's two kinds of assignments that you can't turn in late. One of them is discussion, because you can't discuss if you're not interacting during the discussion time. And the other one is extra credit. Okay. So if you do any of the extra credit. If you want to do the extra credit and you don't, you do it late. I won't accept it. Right. And so it'll be cut off on. On the. On the assignment page here. Right. Everything else, you can turn it in late for full credit, but you have to come to my office hours and get a code. Right. So it's better for you to turn it in beforehand. But if you don't turn it in beforehand, then you have to come to my office hours, tell me which assignment that you missed, and I will give You a code, and you'll put that in the assignment before you turn it in that way. I'll know that. That we, that we interacted about it and talk. Okay, you guys understand this. So it's actually very generous. It's a very generous policy. I don't, I don't penalize for late work and because I want everybody to do well in divorce. But at the same time, I do encourage you to do your work on time because the work is due when it's due because of, you know, the nature of the course, the presentation of the material. All right, Questions, Comments? Because actually, believe it or not, the whole point of doing the assignments is to learn. You're hopefully learning something from doing these assignments. All right? It's not just to keep you guys busy, angry. All right? Questions, Comments about anything. All right, Then we're going to look at. Let's go back to my lecture. Okay, now you see the Europe on the eve of expansion. You see that? Okay, so I'm doing good today. I haven't actually talked about anything you're not looking at for yet. All right, so we're going to start off going all the way back to the Middle Ages. We're gonna, we're gonna go even before that. We're gonna go to the time of the Roman Empire. Okay. And just to, to, to situate ourselves in time, I'm going to introduce to you the Western history timeline. All right? Now, the reason why I call this the Western history timeline is because if you're looking at history from the European or the Western point of view, and that would be American. European and American. Right. You would divide time up into these three eras, or historians do. Okay, if you're looking at Chinese history or African history or South Asian history or something else, they don't, they don't look at the world in the same way. They don't look at the time periods in the same way. But from our point of view, we can divide Western history up. We can divide history up into three different ages, and the three ages are the classical, the medieval, and the modern. All right, I told you about. The modern era is the era that we're discussing in most of our course. It's interesting when we talk about terminology, the modern era starts at about 1500, and it goes until the middle of the 20th century. And then after the middle of the 20th century, we're actually living in what's called the postmodern era. Right. And, well, that's a little bit philosophical. We'll talk about that later. But at any rate, the modern era is where our focus is going to be, but we need to know how we got there. Right. So the classical era is the era of the Greeks and the Romans. Right. So it's the era of. It's an era where there is an appreciation for art and architecture and literature, and there's a culture that values the individuals. Individuals are valued as individuals. You keep that in mind, because that's going to change. Right. And so when we think about the Greeks and the Romans, we're talking about the classical period. And again, there was a flowering of secular production. All right, now, secular actually means every day. But what I'm talking about here is it's a production of like, for example, architecture. Does anybody recognize this building here? I don't know the name of it, but I recognize it. Does anybody? Some. You guys should. The Parthenon. Yeah, it's the temple to Athena in Athens. Right. And so that's kind of characteristic of. There's, you know, also statues and. And paintings. Not so many paintings, but some literature that survived from this era. Okay, the classical era. So we look at that kind of as our. As the foundation of our civilization. All right, because you're with me. Questions, Comments about this. All right, now what happens is that the Roman Empire falls. We put the date for that at 476, even though the Roman Empire was. Had been actually declining for a long time, and it actually existed after 476. So the question is, why did we pick 476? And the answer is, because that's a marker in time. What happened in 476 was that Rome, the city of Rome, was sacked by barbarians, and that brought an end to the Roman political authority in much of Western Europe. Okay, so we say, okay, well, that's the fall of Rome. But keep in mind that if people were living in 476 in Rome and they experienced the invasion of the barbarians, they wouldn't wake up the next morning and look on CNN or read in the newspaper, classical era falls, Middle Ages begins. It's just something that happens that we can look at it from the distance of time. Right. We can look back at it and say, well, everything before this was pretty much one way. Everything after this was kind of a different way. But keep in mind that there's really a smooth transition. And if you're living during that period of time, you don't really realize that you're living through a turning point in history. Okay. Does that make sense to you guys? Okay, so. All right, so. So now in 476, Rome falls. We've already talked about how the Roman Empire in the east survived, but the Roman Empire in the west is gone, okay? And what replaces it is the rule of the Church. Okay? There are political entities during this period of time, but I'll talk about in just a couple minutes how the Church actually takes control of the government functions, because nobody else could do it. And they actually will impose a view, a worldview on Europe, on Western Europe, from this period here all the way up into what we call the beginning of the modern era, or 1453. Now, I've already told you guys that you don't have to remember days, but does anybody actually remember what happened in 1453? Because we talked about it in class last. Last Thursday. Nobody remembers. We were talking about the Ottoman Empire, right? And we were talking about how on May 27, 1453, the Suleiman captured, or actually his meme, Mehmed captured, the city of. Anybody remember Constantinople. Exactly. Constantinople, which was the city of Constantine. Okay. And that means that that is the end of the Roman Empire. So here we say the Roman Empire falls here, but it's still in existence up to here. Right. It's in a different format and we'll talk a little bit about that in just a minute. Right. But the era between the fall of Rome and the fall of Constantinople, we call the Medieval era, or actually Middle era means Middle age. Right? We call it the Middle Ages, and then we also call it the Christian era and also call it the Dark Ages. And we're going to talk about why that is in just a few minutes. Right? So that's the timeline between the classical and the modern, the three periods that we're looking at in our course. I want to ask you guys right now, though, do you guys recognize this picture down here? The building in this picture down here at the bottom? Does anybody want to guess what is it in. Is it in. Is that in Washington D.C. or something? It's in Washington D.C. right, exactly. Is it. Is that the Lincoln? I. I don't remember what the buildings are called, but is it like for the brand, for the. Ah, I. I think you're on it. You know, it's actually the Judicial. The judicial branch. And what is the judicial branch called? Something Court. Supreme Court. Supreme Court, Exactly. Okay, so. So the Supreme Court. This is a Supreme Court building in Washington. Do you notice the similarity between this building. I'm sorry. And between this building and this building? You notice similarity? This architecture. That was when they built Washington D.C. they used an Architectural style called neoclassical. Okay, Neoclassical means neoclassical. Why do you think that they chose to make the American government buildings look like the classical world? What did the new United States have in common with the Greeks and the Romans? It's a republic. Republic. It's a democracy. Right. Now, the reason for this, and we're going to talk more about this on a different day, the reason for this is because the United States was a nation in terms of a modern nation state. In fact, it was really the first nation ever. Right. The first of the modern nation state. And we'll talk more about that to later coming up. Right. But unlike other nations, the United States didn't have an ancient past to, to give legitimacy to their nationhood. And so what they did was they associated the United States with classical world because of democracy. So this is, this is all part of creating the. The American nation. All right, you guys are with me. And you can just kind of let that settle in the back of your head because we'll come back to it later. Okay. Questions, comments about this? Okay, so now let's take a look at the Roman Empire here, which we already said. Okay, this is about 400, I think. So it's before the fall of Rome. And one of the things that has happened is that the Roman Empire has been divided between east and west. The Western Roman Empire in theory was centered in Rome, but it was really centered in Trevino or Trieste or someplace up here in the north. Right. The Eastern Empire was centered in a little town called Byzantium, which is the farthest east of Europe. And when it was, when it became the Roman capital, it was made the Roman capital by Constantine the Great. So he renamed the city Constantinople or the city of Constantine. And then the Eastern Roman Empire remained. All right, what happened from the 4th to the 7th century was that there was an influx of barbarian peoples from Central Asia. Okay. They had different names. They had different names like Goths and Vistagoths and Vandals and Ostrogoths and things like that. Right. And they moved into the, what we would call the civilized areas of Western Europe. They stressed the Eastern Empire. And the reason why they were called barbarians was because their language sounded to the Greeks like bar, bar, bar, bar, bar. Right. And so but the, the Eastern Empire was able to withstand the assault of the barbarians, but the Western Empire wasn't able to do that. Right. So, so what happens then again in 476? By the time we get to 476, the political authority of Rome has disappeared in the West. Okay, now the importance of that is that the, the political authority, the empire's administrative structure exists for a reason. And the reason is to provide services, just like our government today exists essentially to provide services. And it doesn't exist just to tell people what to do and to take their stuff away from them. Right? And so one of the things that people in the Roman Empire had gotten used to was the fact that the Roman authority maintained a peaceful society. It was called the Paxtromana. Right? And what that meant was that every. That people were protected, that the people were protected from crime and they were protected from. From vandals. And vandals is actually a name of one of the groups that came in, but they were protected from pirates and from. From brigands and things like that. And, and also that the, the state provided goods to people. They provided. They built roads, they built, you know, buildings. They, you know, made sure the trash was picked up, they made sure that everybody had, that food distribution happened and all those different things. Right? So, so that's really the essential reason why people organize into a government is to have somebody to do those things for them. Right? To make sure that those things happen. Okay? And even in the smallest community, even if it's a little tribal community, the purpose of any authority that's in that community is to make sure those things happen. Right? You guys are with me. Questions. All right, so, so what happens is then when the Roman political authority disappears, there is no other authority that is able to accomplish what the Roman administration accomplished except for the Church. All right? The Church actually assumes political authority, meaning that the Church does what needs to be done because the political structure isn't there to do it. Okay? So now when we think about this, we look at when the Church stepped in to start doing these things for the people in Western Europe, they didn't do it because they were trying to grab power or to shove something down people's throats. They did it because that was something that done and they did it, right? So it wasn't like it was some evil plot, the church to take over the world, okay? But when they did take over the world, they imposed their own worldview on the world, okay? And so that really leads to the structure of the Middle Ages, the cultural, social structure of the Middle Ages. Okay? You guys, are you guys with me? Any questions or comments about any of this? Okay, so now let's take a basic look at the social structure of the Middle Ages, okay? And the way that we can imagine it is the way that they called it the three estates okay, now what the estates are. Sorry, I don't know why that's doing that. What the estates are, are groups of people, almost like castes in a way, right? Or social strata, something like that. Okay? And the people of Europe were divided up into three different groups, okay? The three different groups were the bellatores, the oratores and the obradores. Okay? The bellatores were people who fought wars. Bella means war. So these are people who fight wars or wield weapons, essentially, and they become the nobles, the. The aristocratic houses of Europe. Okay? The oratories are people who pray. Aura means pray. Right. P R A Y. Right. And so they. They become the ones who actually mediate salvation for everybody. That's the clergy. And then the obradori is essentially supposed to be everybody else. Right? And obra means work. So they're the workers. But in theory, the only kind of work that happened in the Middle Ages was agricultural work. So when we think about the obra dories, we think about the peasants. All right? People who work on the land and talk more about them coming up. Any questions or comments about that? These are the three groups, okay? Now this was a well ordered society. In theory, it was a society where every group had a place in society. Every member of every group had responsibility to society and received benefit from society. Okay? And one thing about these, they're called corporate corporations, right? Bodies. One thing about these estates is that if you were born into one of these two estates, you're pretty much always going to be in that estate. I mean, being in this estate told you everything that you needed to know about your life. If you were a noble, that meant that you were going to. To train for war and that you were going to be a landowner or land operator, not really an owner. We'll talk about that later. Right. If you were peasant, you knew that you were going to be working in the field or you're going to be working on the farm, and that, you know, you knew where you were going to sit in church, you knew what you were going to do in life. You knew where you were going to get married. You knew who you were going to get married to. You knew what kind of parties you would go to, those sorts of things. Yes, Esteban, I'm sorry. So the three estates, does that predate the mercantile class or the. Right. We're going to talk about them in just a second, okay? Right, but that's a good question. Okay, so at any rate, the point here is that these are pretty fixed. And because of that society in the Middle Ages is pretty stable right now. Just look at what I did here on this drawing. Looking at the different groups, the bellatories are the ones who become the political leaders, I guess you could say the kings and dukes and all those people. And their job is to provide protection to themselves and everybody else. So they're supposed to protect the clergy and the peasants and themselves from whatever enemy there might be, whether it's the next duke over or some barbarian invasion or something else, right? That's their job. And then the job of the oratories is to mediate salvation through the Church, right? So from the Catholic Church point of view, salvation can only be obtained from the Church through the sacraments, right? And so, so that meant that the clergy, what their main goal was to mediate salvation for themselves and for everybody else by administering the sacraments. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions, Comments about this. And in the last group, the obradores, they would provide physical support in the form of food, things, agricultural goods to the rest of the other, to themselves and everybody else, right? So we have. Every group then has a responsibility and every group receives benefit. And that's, that's something that's going to maintain a very stable society. The society lasts for about a thousand years, right? Is it with me? Questions? Comments? I mean, that's a long time. Okay, all right, so now you're looking at this and you're saying, okay, well, I put the first estate as nobles, but they're down here. And the second estate are the clergy, and they're on the top. And then the third estate, they're also down underneath the clergy. Why is the clergy at the top? They talk to God. They not only. They not only talk to God, but theologically they are God, Right? The Pope is called the Vicar of Christ. That means that he lives. Christ lives through the Pope vicariously. Right? And when the Pope speaks in a certain way ex cathedral, he's actually saying the words of God, right? So, so what happens then is that the. Because the clergy is the mediator of salvation, and because for the people who lived in the Middle Ages, salvation was the most important thing, right? Salvation. You, you might live okay here on earth, but if you weren't saved and you died, you're going to spend eternity in hell, right? Now, some of us believe that and some of us don't believe that now, right? But. But those people totally believed it, right? And so if you're in control of somebody's eternal destiny, you're going to be living and you're going to be Receiving a lot of authority from the people. You guys get what I'm saying? So the clergy then remains really the, the kind of foundation of society through the Middle Ages. All right, you need to keep that in mind, too. All right? Questions, Comments about this? Esteban, do you still have your hand up or did I just forget to. I guess he's not in there, so he must not have his hand up. I don't know how to undo that. Sorry. I'll undo it. Okay, so. All right, so, so now let me just tell you where we're going with this, all right? Because I told you that this was a, a stable society, and I told you that it was a well ordered society where everybody knew what their place was in society and everybody knew what, where they belong, okay? What they were supposed to do. Okay? The problem is that like every other theoretical social structure, it wasn't exactly like this. It may have been at some point something very similar to this. But the, the, the way that it really worked out and it got worse over time was that the nobles didn't really protect the peasants. Right? What the nobles did was they fought wars with other nobles and they collected taxes from the peasants. Right? And they also made the peasants be foot soldiers, right? The clergy. The Church continued to administer the sacraments, but the clergy became corrupt. And so the primary vision of many members of the clergy, particularly the higher ups, the bishops and the cardinals and those people who, many of them came from this group, right? Many of them, when, when you were born, say you were not the firstborn in a, in a noble family, then you would get, you would seek employment in the Church. So what ends up happening is that many of the bishops and the leaders of the Church really aren't there because they're religiously inclined. They're there because that's the way, the only way they can make money. Right? And so what ends up happening is that much of the clergy becomes corrupt. They become, you know, they, they live for going to Rome and partying it up and, and, you know, they really kind of, they kind of are. They're derelict in their duties of mediating salvation. In fact, at one point, for a certain period of time, the papacy. You guys know who the Pope is, right? The Pope is the Bishop of Rome and his office is called the papacy. Right? And for a short period of time in the Middle Ages, the papacy was actually hereditary. What's wrong with that? That whoever is in that position doesn't really have to work for it. It's just. No, that's not, it becomes corrupt. What's the wrong with it? What's wrong with the clergy being able to pass on because it's just one family? Well, that's the same with. With the nobles as well. But. But that's not really it. What is different about the clergy than, say, the nobles? What kind of a vow do you think they take? Oh, celibacy. Exactly. So. So it shows that they were not only. They were not only corrupt in their vows, but they were openly corrupt in their vows. They didn't even bother to hide it. Right. And the Obra d' ores and the way that they paid for all their parties and everything was by milking the peasants. Right? So the clergy was corrupt and having a bunch of parties, and the bellatories were fighting with each other over land and resources, and the Obradoris were paying for everything. Right. And so this model of a society remains, but in reality, everybody knows it's a lie. Right? Particularly the peasants. The peasants don't rebel against it because of the power that the clergy and the nobles have over them, which we'll talk about in just a minute. Now, Esteban asked just a few minutes ago about the mercantile class, and that's the thing that's actually missing here. Because in theory, there were only the nobles, the clergy and the field workers, because all of the work that was done was done out in the countryside. But in reality, there were cities in Europe, and in the cities there were merchants, guildsmen, people like that. They didn't fit in this structure. They were there, but they didn't fit. So they're kind of invisible at this point. But one of the things that we'll notice as we go through the course is that it's going to be this class that you don't see that is eventually going to tear this apart. Okay. And replace it. All right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? All right, so I'm kind of done with that. Oh, let me talk about a couple other things in regards to this. I'm gonna. I'll talk about the feudal system in a. In a different lecture, but just to mention right now, what I mean by the feudal system is that they. These three estates have a geographical form in which there is a piece of land. And this piece of land is called a thief. I have. I usually draw a picture, but I'm really bad at drawing pictures on zoom. Right? But this piece of land, let's say it's a square, and it's called a thief, and it's divided between one area in where that's that's called the fields of the lord. And on that field is the castle or the manor where the lord lives. And the lord actually has control of the thief. But the lord doesn't own the thief and he doesn't own the peasants. But he has rights to the labor of the peasants and rights to the product, produce of the land. Right? And he gets that from the king. So the king says, okay, you can be the. You can have. You have rights to these peasants in this land as long as you remain loyal to me. If you stop being loyal to me, then I'm going to take it away from you, give it to somebody else. Right? So that's where the nobles sit in this structure. The oratories are there. It's part of the structure. The peasants actually will live in another area of the. Of the thief, which is called a village, right? And then the village is going to be surrounded by what we call the commons. Okay, you probably have heard of commons before, like the Boston Common, right? Something like that. The commons is supposed to be the area where the. It's held in common by everybody and everybody. All the peasants can work this area in return for. Or let me say it the other way around, the trade off here is that the nobles require labor from the peasants to provide them with income. Right. But not all of the labor from the peasants. Right. So the price that the noble pays for the labor of the peasants is to give them the right to use the commons for their own benefit. Right? So basically then, the nobles are receiving income from the peasants in the form of agricultural goods, but in return, the peasants are allowed to live on the land. Okay, you guys got what I'm saying here? So that's the feudal system. We're going to actually look at that in an American context next week. Right, but I'm sorry. Yeah, so. All right, so that's one way of thinking about it. Now, the other way of thinking about it is kind of political. And the way that that works out, or the way that we call that is the empire of Christendom. All right, now, the empire of Christendom can be thought of kind of like a. Like an organization chart, right? And at the top is going to be who's in charge of the empire. Who do you think would be in charge of the empire of Christendom? The Pope? Well, you would think that, but it is, it is the empire of Christendom. So who do you think is in charge of that? The Holy Roman Empire? No, you guys are on it in a way, but you have to think about now, if it's the empire of Christendom, who's actually in charge? Who rules the empire of Christendom? In Christ. Christ. Exactly. Now here's the thing. The idea is that the empire of Christendom was established by Christ, which it wasn't. Right. But we'll just say that it was. Right. And. Because that's what they believed. Okay. And so the empire of Christendom was established by Christ. And the duty of Christians was to spread this empire around the world so that eventually everybody would be Christian. Right. And then once everybody had become Christian, that would be fulfillment of Jesus mission on earth. Right, Christ's mission on earth. Okay, so. So the idea here then is that Christ is the ruler of this universal empire. But there's a problem that Christ has in terms of ruling in the 15th century, which is what? Where is he? He's dead. He's not dead. He's in heaven. How could he be an emperor if he was dead? Right. So he's in heaven, and that means he's got to have somebody on earth to do things for him. And that's where we talk about who's actually in control is the. What, the Vicar of Christ the Hope. Freaking Pope. Exactly. Right. Okay, so the Pope then is actually in charge of the empire. But there's a problem with this if you think about it theoretically. Right, Because. Because if we look at the three estates, the clergy, they. Their job is to do what now? Salvation. They. They mediate salvation. And how do they do it? By administering what I talked about it just a minute ago, by administering the sacraments. All right, you guys know what sacraments are? Sacraments are like baptism, marriage, holy orders, things like that, last rites. And that's the power that the, that the, the clergy has. All right, so do you think that they're able to govern an earthly empire, a secular empire with sacraments? What do you need actually to govern? Money. Well, you need money, but at the end, at the end, government has as a weapon to point at you. So, for example, like, if you guys go to Mesa College and you park without a parking permit and you get a ticket and they start sending you notices, and the next thing you know, you ignore the notices, and then. And eventually somebody with a gun will show up at your door, because that's the nature of government. Government is. Is motivated, essentially maintained by force. Right. And the church essentially doesn't have that kind of force. But who does in that structure that we were talking about? The nobles. The nobles, exactly. Right. So what Happens is that the nobles kind of become like a secondhand man to the Pope, right, as the Sword of Christendom and otherwise known as somebody already mentioned as the Holy Roman Emperor. Okay, talk a little bit more about the Holy Roman Empire later. It was not only not Roman and not an empire, but. But it was theoretically the political structure of the Empire of Christendom, which is why they call it holy. Right, you guys are all with me. Questions, comments about this. All right, so, so then the. So what we really get from that then is this belief, cultural, deeply held belief that the Empire of Christendom exists, that the future of the world is for the entire world to be unified by Christ and that it is the duty of Christians to make that happen. Right, so what happens then is that Christianity becomes a missionary force. Okay? Missionary, meaning that their mission is to spread Christianity. Okay, so the interesting thing then here is that as you guys have probably already picked up from listening to me talk, Europe was a backwater. Europe was poor. It was politically divided. It suffered from famines and plagues, and it didn't really produce anything that anybody wanted. And yet even at that time when nobody would have ever believed that Europe would go to the World Series, right? They still had this sense that they were destined to spread their way of life around the world. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions, comments about this? All right, so. So that's basically the Middle Ages, okay? The, as I mentioned to you, feudal society, Western Europe becomes corrupt, and then the end of the Roman empire happens in 1453. Now, okay, well, what does that got to do with. With anything? And let me tell you what it does have to do with any. Because remember that we talked about, the political authority in the west basically declines, and so the church then takes over, and they have a Christian outlook on everything. So what's important for Christians is to go to heaven, okay? And the life on earth is just a kind of a way station or a stop on the road to heaven, right? And it's not a pleasant one. It's basically a veil of tears. So we have to suffer through this life so that we can get to the next one. Right? And that means then that all of our focus in terms of our goal in life is to get to heaven, right? And because of that, all of the things that we knew during the classical era are not. Are no longer important. Doesn't matter. Architecture doesn't matter. Literature doesn't matter. Individuals don't matter. The only thing, the only way you matter as an individual, as a part of that Group that you're in. Right. One of the three estates. Okay. And so later, people are going to look back at this time in Western Europe and call it the Dark Ages. Why is it the Dark Ages? Because they stopped pursuing the kind of secular lifestyle that was prevalent during the classical period. Right, Guys are with me. Okay. But now in the east, that. That classical outlook remained. Okay, Meaning that the. The east continued to. Not only was. It was Christian, but it was a Greek. It became a Greek empire. Right. And they maintained the knowledge that had been lost in the West. Okay, who do you think maintained that knowledge? What group of people? I'm not asking for names. I don't mean like Fred. Right. I mean, what group of people do you think maintains knowledge, like in the Middle East? The philosophers. Philosophers are as good. Scholars. Scholars, exactly. I would say scholars. Right. Now let's think about this again. When we talk about the history we've already learned, and we know that the. The Anatolian. Anatolia is being stressed by the Turks. The Ottoman Turks. Right. And that the. Throughout the 13th century, the Roman Empire is diminishing until finally the only thing that's left is the city of Constantinople. And then, you guys know, May 23rd or whatever date it was, 1453, Constantinople fell. All right, now, so that means that there's a lot of turmoil happening for 100 years here, right? A lot of fighting and violence. And when there's fighting in violence, what do scholars do? Record it. You see, now everybody says that, and I don't know why, because if they're not going to sit out on the battlefield and keep records of what happened on the battlefield, they'll wait for the battle to be over and somebody will come back and tell them what happens. Right. But in terms of if I was a scholar and there was gunfire, imagine we're sitting in the classroom at Mesa and we look out the window and there's gunfire out there. What am I going to do? Am I going to go sit by the window and take notes? What do you think I'm going to do? So you abandon that. I'm going to run away. I'm going to run away. Right. And so that's what happens. These scholars in the east, they run away from the turmoil in the West. All right, but now where are they going to run to? Are they going to run here? No, it's full of barbarians. They get killed. Are they going to run here? No, it's full of Muslims. They'll probably still get killed. Right, but are they going to run here? Yeah, because they have Something in common. They have the Christian religion in common with the people that here in the West. So there's a. There's a migration of educated people who go to the West. Okay, so now these people with knowledge, when they go to the west, what do you think they bring with them? Their records? What do. Yeah, you're right about that. What do the people in the east have that the west don't? We just talk about their knowledge, like the knowledge, technology, the knowledge of the religion. Knowledge of which era? Knowledge. Classical. Classical. Exactly. They bring the knowledge of the classical era with them. And what that does is it causes a rebirth of knowledge. It's the rebirth of classical knowledge in the West. Right. And I don't know how many of you guys know French, but the French word for rebirth is Renaissance. Right? So. So this is the beginning of the Renaissance. The Renaissance is the rebirth of classical knowledge in the West. All right, now I'm going to take a little bit of a. I'm going to take a little bit of a detour here and say, okay, what eventually is going to happen as a result? And you'll see this as we go through as a result of this reintroduction of knowledge into the west is what we call the Enlightenment. Right? But when we talk about the Enlightenment, we have to wonder, well, what do they mean, who called it the Enlightenment and why did they call it the Enlightenment? Right. And the reason why is because as from the point of view of Enlightenment thinkers, the Middle Ages or the Christian era was an era of darkness between two ages of enlightenment. So they associate the classical era as an era of enlightenment, and they associate the era that they're living in as an era of Enlightenment. And the era in between is a dark age in the middle, which is why they call it the Middle Ages. You guys get what I'm saying here? It's a middle age between two ages. It's a middle age of darkness between two ages of light. Okay, got that. Questions? Comments? All right, we'll leave it there for now. Okay, now I think we're done here. One of the things. Well, let's go to the next. Let's go to the next slide here. What time is there anyway? We're running out of time here. Okay, so we talked about all this. The individual becomes a coordinates. We'll talk about that here in just a second. But what really happens with the Renaissance is that there are new ways of thinking announced. And many of these ways of thinking challenge the social order that's been established in Europe particularly, they challenge the Authority of the Catholic Church, the Roman Catholic Church. And the reason why is because they can, they can assert that the Roman Catholic Church isn't acting according to the Scriptures. Right? And one of the things that these scholars bring with them from the east is more accurate scriptures. In Europe, what had happened was that the Bible had been translated, compiled and translated into Latin in about the year 300, and it was never changed, right? So if you needed a new Bible, the way that you would get one would be that somebody would take the old Bible and, and copy it by hand. Right? But when they were copying it by hand, they would, maybe because it's human nature, they'd say, well, this sounds better this way, or, or, or I don't really get this, this is what it really means, or something like that. And it ends up being a lot like that game Telephone. You ever play that game Telephone when you were at camp or something like that, where you whisper something in somebody's ear and then it goes around, so you whisper peanut butter in somebody's ear and it comes back around and it's like Star Trek, the Next Generation, something like that. Completely different, right? And what happens is then that culturally and scripturally, the church deviates from, from what had been originally, what had been the founding documents of the religion, essentially. Right? Okay, so, so this knowledge becomes known by people in Europe. And so certain people are going to start to, to question the Church's policies, right? And one of these people is going to be a man named Martin Luther. Now, this is not Martin Luther King, right? Martin Luther King isn't in this class, Right, But Martin Luther was a Roman, a Catholic priest in Cologne, Germany, or actually Wittenberg was where he was. And he was a very troubled man. He was afraid that he was so sinful and he would never be able to make it to heaven. And by kind of exposure to these new ideas, he came to interpret the Bible to mean that you didn't need the church actually to get salvation, that you were, you were saved by faith alone, and that the only way that you could get faith was by reading the Bible. Okay? So, so those are two things that the church was adamantly opposed to. The first one was that you absolutely had to have the church in order to gain salvation because you needed it, you needed the sacraments. And the second one was they didn't want you to read the Bible because they were afraid that you would not be able to interpret it correctly. Right? So, so Martin Luther says, well, we don't need the church, but what we do need is the Bible. Excuse me. And. And he ends up preaching this. But that's not really what gets him in trouble. What really gets him in trouble is he. He publishes what's known as these 95 theses. And basically the 95 theses are an argument against what they call indulgences. Right. Let me just say this briefly, and I don't. I don't want to get in. I'm not making a theological argument here. I'm just talking about the one way that we could think about what indulgences are in. In Catholic theology, when you die, you can go to one of three places. If you die in mortal sin, which is like a felony, you go to hell. If you die with venial sin, which is like a misdemeanor, you go to purgatory. And if you die with no sin, then you go to heaven, Right? And that people that die with venial sin, which is almost everybody, end up going to purgatory, and they have to spend some time in purgatory to be purged of their sins so they can go to heaven. Okay? What had happened, There was a. There's a. Well, actually, it's still there. In Catholic theology, there are certain things that you can do that. Well, certain works that you can do that will give you credit for time spent in purgatory. Right? So. So the thing is, like, if you do a certain thing, like you pray the rosary 15 times a day, or if you go on a pilgrimage or something like that, then you get these indulgences, okay? And these indulgences are. Are applied to the time that you're supposed to spend in purgatory and going beyond that, right? The indulgences, if you don't think that you need them or you think somebody else needs them worse than you do, you can give these indulgences to somebody else, even if they're dead, right? One of the big problems with indulgences is that you don't know how many you need. You might know how many you have. You have no idea how many you need, right? So that's kind of a big problem. But the bigger problem from the. From Luther's point of view, was that by the time we get to the end of the Middle Ages, the Catholic hierarchy had decided that rather than getting indulgences by doing something holy, if you paid for somebody else to do something holy, then that was indulgence for that, right? And so basically, then what ends up happening is that, is that you can get indulgences not by being whole yourself, but by giving money. Right. And there was actually a phrase. One of the. One of the people who went around Europe selling indulgences said, for every coin that in the coin box clings, another sinner from purgatory springs. Right. But Martin Luther was appalled by that idea, right? And so he wrote this 95 theses and said that there was no biblical support for the idea of doing works to gain salvation. And also that if the Pope really had the ability to let everybody out of Purgatory, he should just do it rather than making everybody suffer. Right? Okay, so this is what gets him in trouble. He goes to. He's called to a meeting in Bavaria somewhere. I can't remember the name of the place, but it's somewhere in Bavaria where he's put on trial for heresy and he is actually convicted. And eventually he will be excommunicated, which means that he's no longer in communion with the Church, which from the Church's point of view means he's going to hell. Right? But they don't do what they usually do to reformers, which is this. Do you see what's happening here? What is happening to this guy? He's becoming a human barbecue. Right? And why? Because he questioned the Church. His name is Jan Hus, and he questioned the Church. And because of that, they said, hey, why don't you come to Bohemia and. And we'll talk about it. And they talked about it by putting them on the stake and burning him. Right? And that's what happened. As far as they were concerned, the Reformation was over. But that doesn't happen to Martin Luther. And the reason why it doesn't is because Martin Luther has a powerful protector. And that powerful protector is named Frederick III of Saxony, also called by Protestants Frederick the Wise. Okay, you guys are with me. So because of that, Martin Luther then is able to continue to teach against the Church's teachings. And eventually what ends up happening is that his word catches on. Right? And so if you guys remember, when we talked about the three estates and we said that everybody knew that it was a lie, right? Particularly the peasants. Right. When we see Martin Luther speaking out against the Church, the peasants realize that what they're seeing is somebody speaking truth to power, and that causes them to reject the Church. Right? And there's actually peasant revolts around Europe and things like that, which. Which Martin Luther condemned. He didn't. He wasn't trying to upset society. What he was trying to do was reform the Church. But the Church was so entrenched in its. In its structure that it couldn't reform. And so what ended up happening was that Martin Luther broke the Church. Okay, you guys are with me on this. Questions, comments about this. And then what happens is that this gives an opening to the. The nobles. Because now the nobles can say, okay, because, well, the. Wait, let me just say this first, that the nobles decided what the religion was. You couldn't decide by yourself, right? So if you lived in a place where the noble was Catholic, you were Catholic, or else you were dead. Right? And if you lived in a place where the noble was Protestant, then you were Protestant. Right. It didn't matter what you believed yourself. And if you didn't defy the noble, then you would pay the consequence for that. Right? Okay, so then what happens is that the nobles can now say, okay, Pope, if you want me to remain Catholic, you got to give me some. You got to scratch my back here a little bit. You got to let me pick my own bishops or something like that, right? And. And so then that gives them some leverage over the Vatican. And if the Vatican then refuses, they say, okay, we're not. We're not Catholic anymore. Now we're Protestant. Right? And so what happens is that we see the nobles start to become more powerful in the social structure of Europe at the same time that the Church is becoming less and less powerful. Okay, questions, Comments about this couple last couple things here. The one thing we'll talk about, Calvin, in the election later, right, not the election, but election, but the Council of Trent is the response of the Catholic Church to the Reformation. And basically what happened at the Council of Trent was that the Church actually ended up being reformed. But the things that. The way that the Church reformed itself continued to deny. Two things that. That Luther claimed was true. And one of them was that you could gain salvation outside the Church. They insisted that you needed to have the Church because you needed the sacraments. And the other one was that you could. You could gain faith by reading the Bible. And the Church said, you can't read the Bible. We have what's called the teaching magisterium, the authority, the way to teach what's actually in the Bible. So because of that, even though the major abuses of the Church were reformed at the Council of Trent, the theological differences were not overcome. And so that that split remains. Right, between the Catholic Church. Catholic means universal, and the Protestant Church means that those who are protesting against the universal Church. All right, you guys are following here. Questions, comments. Okay, so now what happens when you break the Church into two, like that then all of a sudden everybody else can come up with their different ideas about what's really true. And so the church breaks up into hundreds of different little sects and congregations and things like that. Right. So there's, there's Lutherans, and then later on there's going to be Calvinists who are also called the Reformed Church. And then there'll be Baptists and there'll be Anabaptists and all these different kinds of people. And the problem with that from, from a social point of view and the era that we're talking about is that we think in our society that if I'm one religion and you're another religion, that's totally okay. Right? Or if I'm one religion and you're no religion, that's okay too. Right. And so we have what we call toleration. Okay? We're not really that tolerant, but we're way more tolerant than these guys were. Right, right. So, so tolerant, meaning that you can be whatever you want and I can be whatever I want, but in those days, if you were the wrong religion, it was my duty to either convert you back to the right religion or kill you. That's the only thing that would happen. Right. And so what ends up happening is that the Reformation sets off a series of wars throughout Europe, really started by the Spanish under Carlos V. And we'll talk about a little bit later in the course. Right. In Spanish under Carlos V will be using money that he's just obtained to fight wars against the Protestants. And so there begins wars in the beginning of the 17th century, 1620s, 1630s, and those will last for over 100 years. Right. Because how can you win a religious war when the other sects are gone or. Exactly. The only way to win is to kill everybody, because people won't change the religion just because they've been threatened. I mean, that's what makes the martyrs. There's martyrs all over the place. Look at Muslims blowing themselves up. They'd rather die than give up their religion. Right. And Christians the same way. Okay? So, so what happens is that it becomes impossible to win. These wars are going on and it becomes impossible to win. Right. And, and because it becomes impossible to win, eventually, you know, the economy of Europe is destroyed and the mines are destroyed and the fields are destroyed. People are dying. There's whole generations that are lost. And, and there's going to be a group of people called philosophes. We'll talk about them later. Right? And they're going to look at all this and say, well, this is ridiculous. If this is what God tells you to do, we need to find a different God. Right. And they're going to be the ones who. Who. What's. What I'm looking for. They will be the ones who initiate what we call the Enlightenment or the Age of Reason. Okay, Questions? Comments about this? All right, so last slide is going to be quick. Okay. And then I'll let you go. Okay. So consequences of the Reformation. Reformation upset the balance of power in Europe. European society of mitigating the power of the Church. There can no longer be a Christian empire if there's no longer Christian unity. Right. And then, as I already mentioned, the. The princes then become more powerful. The Reformation led to new ideas about worship that had consequences, non. The practices, religion. For example, you wanted to read the Bible, then you had to know how to read. Right? But if you can read the Bible, what else can you read? Other interpretations of the Bible or other. Exactly. Or even radical works like the works of the Enlightenment thinkers. Right. So public education then leads to popular literacy, which means that people can actually read things other than what they're being told. It also, interestingly enough, leads to nationalism. Let me just talk about this briefly here. This is what Europe looks like in 1500. And I think I've shown you this map before. And when we look at this map, we see that, you know, there looks Spain and here's France and England, but they're not really Spain and France and England. There are a bunch of little duchies and principalities that are ruled by different groups of different leaders, and they're all ruled by the same king. Right. But the people who live here are not at all like the people who live here. They're different culture, different language. But, excuse me, when they become Protestants, they have to learn how well you have to be able to read the Bible. And since you can't translate the Bible into thousands of different languages, they translate it into a common language, what they call the vernacular. Right. And the vernacular, for example, in France is Parisian. France in England, it's the King's English, in Spain, it's Castellano. Right. And the result of that is that over a couple generations, if people are reading the same language, pretty soon they're speaking the same language. Right. You get what I'm saying? And as the power of the Church diminishes and our association with the Church diminishes, a new institution arises where we can place our identification as in the nation. Right. So before the Reformation, before the Enlightenment, there never was an English Nation or a French nation or a Spanish nation, but they were just kingdoms. Right. But after the Enlightenment or during the Enlightenment, these become nations like we know them today, nation states. Okay, so that's where nationalism is going to come from. It's not something that was already there. Right. And then finally it begins an era of brutal and destructive religious warfare which will cause some influential thinkers later to reject religion and try to figure out a new way of understanding the universe. Okay. And I finally finished. Sorry I took so long, but I'm done. Hasta la visa, baby. Live long and prosper. Thanks, Professor. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, Professor. Hello, shooters. How are you? Good, how are you? I'm okay. There is a recent assignment. I think it was the tossing T1. Yeah. Came up and I wasn't able to submit it because I was having an issue with my computer and my girlfriend's computer, hers broke, so she's using my computer. And I submitted it, but it was late. I was wondering if I could keep. Get credit for it or like, credit. Is it submitted? Yeah, I already submitted it. Let me look here. Oh, I gotta. I actually don't know what I'm doing, but I'm pretending I do. Okay. I think I already graded it, didn't I? Let me see. I graded it already. Oh, yeah, you did. Oh, okay. I just saw your email. You know what? I'd rather have you be careful. Thank you. The nonchalant cavalier. Yeah. All right. Just making sure everything's okay. Good. All right, I'll see you Thursday. Have a good day. I had a similar problem too. First of all, how are you doing today? I'm good. Did you. Did you see if I actually graded your paper? Yeah. You graded the tossing? No, but I had another one. Okay. So. Because I came from work really late and I got home like at 10, so I was doing the. I think it was analytical response and I submitted it exactly, like at 11:59, but it turned 12, so I locked. And I couldn't, like, submit it, so I copied. And that was for the discussion? Yes, yes. It was like one minute late, so it didn't let me, like, submit it. So I copied and pasted it on the Google Doc. Yeah. You know, the thing is, the thing about discussions is that if you wait till the last minute, you're not really discussing, are you? Right. Correct. Yeah. So I think I'm going to just leave that one for now because I told you before, I don't really allow work on discussions. But I wouldn't let that discourage me too much because you know there's going to be extra credit. Yeah. And you just keep up with things and you'll be fine. And I like that painting on your wall. Can I have. Oh, thank you. If you give me that, I'll give you credit. I'll send you one right now. I'm kidding. Yeah. Because I did the extra credit because I got scared. I was like, oh, my gosh, that's good. There'll be more extra credit, too. Okay. And also, I had. There was a discrepancy with the textbook. I don't know what happened, but I couldn't take it. It said that I took it, but I didn't like, it gave me a zero. Like, I couldn't click on it. And I never, like, opened it or anything, so it gives me a zero. Like, when I came home and I tried to take it, it wouldn't let me open it. Okay, well, hold on. Yeah. So I got scared and I was like, extra credit says you finished in 30 minutes. I never opened it or anything. And it's saying that I did it. I never did. Home from work and I started doing the other. Didn't let me open it. All right, I'll give you 30 more minutes. Okay. So you can still take it. Okay. But that'd be all. Thank you for your time. All right. You're welcome. Have a good day. Thank you. You. Do you need something for me, Oscar?