Satan. Sam. Sa. Sam. Sa. Sam. We all want to change the world oh, we all want to change the world we talk about destruction don't you know that you can count me out? But you know it's gonna be all right. We do ask before a contribution well, you know we all do. It's only for people with mindset. All I can tell you is whether you have to wait don't you know it's gonna you all right? You know it's gonna be all right you know it's gonna be all right. We don't love to change our institution. You're carrying pictures of Chairman Ma. You. Did you guys like my song? Viva la revolution. It would be nice if I could see you guys faces. I see three so far out of 21. That's one seven. You see I got that mapping down, right? Here we go. How's everybody doing today? Have a good weekend. How about that storm last night? That was pretty interesting, wasn't it? That was fun. My cat, My cat's totally freaked out. Any questions about anything before we get started? Let me show you a couple things that I did on the on the web page here. Okay. Now you see our homepage, right? Canvas. And one thing I want you to notice is that we are here. This is our lecture for today. And on Thursday we are not meeting in class. Although I will be here if you need something from me. But instead of meeting in class, there is a video that I'd like for you to watch. It's a BBC video. It's about. It's about slavery, but it's mostly about. Well, I think it's. It's better to say that it's. It's about both slavery in the Americas and racism. Okay. And they're actually different things. Just so you guys know that right up front. Okay, so. So I. This is. This video is about an hour long. I'd like for you to watch this video. And then I've. Oh, I can't shoot. I wish I had done that. Okay. Yeah. So there's questions. If you can look inside the. The assignment. There's questions. This is a discussion. So I'd like for you to answer all of the questions and then respond to two of your colleagues answers. Okay. Just like you did last time. Most of you guys did really well on the first discussion. I was really pleased with that. And so anyway, this is. This. We're going to be doing the same thing only with a different video this time. It's about race and slavery. And I just like for you to to do your best on really thinking about what I'm asking you here and then see where we at here. So. So yeah, you're going to do that on Thursday. You're going to have that time to watch this video. And then for the next week, you will have an opportunity to do the online discussion. So we will not meet on Thursday, but we will meet on the following Tuesday. That means a week from today. Okay. And then we'll talk about the Industrial Revolution, which is a different kind of revolution. All right. Okay. Any questions, comments about anything that I can help you with? Everybody's good. All right. Okay, so what we're going to do then today is we're going to look at this. See where we are here. This one. Okay. We're going to look at this. You guys see the slide set now? Okay. All right, so we're going to look at this. And just to kind of orient us here, let me just mention that the last thing that we talked. What was the last thing we talked about? I know it was like five days ago, but still was a big topic we talked about on Thursday. We talked about Locke on Thursday. Yeah, yeah. What was the big topic from last week? The Spanish and Portuguese. That was the week before. Are you talking about John Locke? No, John Locke was part of. Was democracy the Age of Enlightenment? Reason? Enlightenment. Reason. Both. Both of those are correct. Okay, so that we talked about the Enlightenment. And before that, I want you guys to remember. And this is going to be hard because it's going all the way back to the beginning. I want you guys to remember the three estates. Do you remember me talking about the three estates? You should look in your notes. What are the three estates? It was a social order of the Middle Ages. The nobles, peasants and the church. Or. No? Yes, peasants and church. Right. Well, they had like a. Yeah, exactly. Certain name. The. Well, yeah, they had. You don't worry about the Latin names, just so you know what they are. It's the nobles, the peasants and the clergy. Right. And what we said was that that was a very. It was a very solid social. A very enduring social arrangement. Whereas, where everyone in society had a place, they knew what their place was. Everyone had responsibilities and everyone received benefits. Right. In theory, it was probably never exactly like that, but in theory, that was the structure. So what we saw happening, and this is something that we saw leading into the Enlightenment, was that the role of the nobles was to protect, and the role of the clergy was to mediate salvation. And the role of the peasants was to support physically those other Two groups, you guys remember that? But what we saw happening by the end of the Middle Ages was that the nobles were all fighting with each other and using the peasants as fodder, and the clergy were living it up in Rome, having parties and using the peasants as donors, essentially people to finance the whole thing, right? So by the time we got to the end of the Middle Ages, we saw there was, there was exploitation by the nobles and abuse by the clergy, and the peasants were stuck in a situation where they knew things weren't right, but they really couldn't do much about it because of the power that the other two estates had. And I, I don't know if you guys will remember, but I talked about that. The, the, there was, there was sometimes a check on the power of the king, and that check was where the king would have to consult all three groups or bodies before he could do something like raise taxes, right? So, so the meeting of all three of those estates together is called the Estates General. I know I didn't mention that, you guys, but the Estates General is where all of the groups come together and they'll propose some topic, usually by the king, and then, and then they'll vote on it. But keep in mind that there's only three votes, okay? One vote for the nobles, one vote for the clergy, and one vote for everybody else, right? So if the, the nobles go into a meeting and say, okay, we're going to raise taxes on everybody so we can attack England. Right, let's vote on it. So the, the nobles are yes, and the clergy are yes, and the peasants are no, but who cares? Because they're outvoted and they're outvoted every time, right? You guys get what I'm saying? So, so this was the, this another name for this situation that we're going to call it now during the Age of Enlightenment, which is where we are, is the old order or the Ancien regime, okay? The ancient regime, okay? And what. The ancient regime is the rule of the clergy and the nobles over the peasants, all right? And this is one of the projects of the Enlightenment, is to topple that social structure, okay? And so a lot of the writing that we talked about, the, the, the intellectual activity that happened in Europe during the, the, what we call the Age of Enlightenment up through the 17th and 18th centuries was really justifying, motivating, calling for the extermination of, the extinction of the old order, the ancient regime, but nobody actually did anything about it, okay? So, you know, it's kind of like that saying when all is said and done. More is said than done. Right? So now let's talk about America a little bit. We haven't talked much about it. We did talk a little bit. Right. One of the things that happens in America. And we'll revisit this again later when we talk about Spanish America, but by the time we get. Well, let's just talk about. Just. Let's talk about England for now, okay? And you guys will remember that the Latin. When I talked about England, I went through that little chart that I had made for you guys about the English history. And what was the last thing on that chart, do you guys remember? Was it the scientific Revolution? No, no. The chart of the English history. English history, timeline. What was the Glorious Revolution? The Glorious Revolution. What was a revolution without, like, any bloodshed? Without any bloodshed. Okay. All right. Exactly. Now, who was involved in this revolution? Do you remember? John Locke? No. John Locke was. He was. He was contemporary. His writing was contemporary with that. But the. Remember, the last thing was the constitutional monarchy, Right. Of who? William and Mary. Right. And do you guys remember who Mary was? This is not Bloody Mary. This is the daughter of James ii. Right? So she's married to William of Orange. That's in Holland, not Orange County. Right. And they get together and they land an army in England. And James II flees England, actually goes to France. Right? But he doesn't renounce his throne, which means then that Parliament places William and Mary on the throne of England, but James still claims to be the legitimate king. And what's going to happen then is years of political turmoil in England over who's the actual real king. Right? And the result of that is going to be that England is so consumed with its own internal politics that it really can't govern the colonies. All right? It still governs the colonies in a theoretical sense, meaning that it passes laws for the colonies and things like that, but the colonies essentially are ruling themselves. So by the time we get to the middle of the 18th century, the 1750s, America is, for all intents and purposes, independent. Okay. Already. Even though they're theoretically ruled by England. And this is actually true of the Spanish colonies as well, but kind of for a different reason, which we'll talk about in a couple weeks. Right? But by the middle of the 18th century, the Americas were, generally speaking, ruling themselves. All right? And so this era between 17. Excuse me, 1690 or so, and about 1760 in America is called the era of benign neglect. The reason why it's called the era of benign neglect is because the British have essentially given up government in the colonies, even though they haven't done so. In theory. In fact. Right, in theory. Okay. Meaning that the colonies essentially are governing themselves. Every one of the colonies has its own assembly. People are elected to the assembly, and all the different colonies government themselves. Kind of like independent countries with theoretically being under the auspices of the king. Right. Okay. So. So now here's what happens in. In 1765, I think. 1764, you know, you don't need to know the date, but 1764, there was a war that started. Actually, it started from a skirmish in the backwoods of Pennsylvania between the Virginia militia, which was then led by a man named George Washington, you may have heard of him. Right. And a French ambassador. And what happens at this skirmish is that the French ambassador is killed. The French say he was assassinated. Right. And so that escalates into a world war between England and France, which we call the Seven Years War. Okay, why do you think they call it the Seven Years War? Lasted seven years. There you go. Good. Okay. So Seven Years War. Also in America, it's known as the French and Indian War. You've probably heard of the French and Indian War. Right. But the French and Indian war wasn't between the French and the Indians. It was the French and the Indians against the British and the Americans. Right. You guys are with me. Okay. So now, another name for it actually is the Great War for Empire, because it was really the battling out of who's going to have the great empire of the world, England or France. Right. The result of the. In the beginning of the war, most of the war was being fought elsewhere. It was being fought in the Caribbean, was being fought in South America, was being fought in Asia and India, but not. And so the British essentially told the Americans, well, you guys defend yourselves. But the Americans were not able to come together to form a successful defense. And so the British were forced to send troops to America. And when the British sent these troops to America, Americans began to fight. Feel the effect of the negative attitude that Europeans have towards Americans because Europeans think of Americans as lazy and stupid. Right. A bunch of hillbillies, essentially. Right. And the Americans actually knew that, but they didn't have to. They didn't have to experience it on a daily basis. But when the British sent troops to America, and then after the war, the British decided to reestablish colonial control of America, particularly the British Parliament. Americans are going to develop a sense of difference. Okay, so now if we think about. At the beginning of this war, Americans think of themselves, their Country. If you ask me, what is your country, I would say Massachusetts or Pennsylvania or South Carolina, something like that. And then you would say that you were a ra subject of the king, right? So you're a member of the British Empire, okay? But your country is your colony, whatever colony you live in, okay? And so everybody in the colonies, when. If I lived in Massachusetts and you were from Virginia, I would think of you as a foreigner. I would think of you as somebody who had a very different social structure, a very different economy, society, politics than I have here in Massachusetts, right? And so every one of the countries considered itself as. Although they're all subject to the empire, they're foreign from each other. It's kind of like in India, there were British colonies in India, Right? But the American colonies didn't think they had anything in common with the British colonies in India, except for the Crown. You guys follow what I'm saying here? That makes sense. Questions? Comments? Okay, so now what happens is when Americans throughout the colonies begin to feel this disrespect, I mean, and it's blatant disrespect. It was like they passed a law called the Quartering act, where Americans had to put up British soldiers, right? And feed them and take care of them, right? So you're thinking, let's say you're a Massachusetts Puritan family, and you have. All of a sudden there's a knock at the door and there's like 10 British soldiers out there saying, you got to put us up. And so they come in and they're fou mouth and they're disrespectful and they're chasing your daughter around and you're going to develop a sense of resentment, right? And the way that the British made the Americans feel was that you're different from us and you're lower than us. But the way that the Americans responded was by saying, we're different from you. Yes, but we're better than you because America is better. America is cleaner. We have a high population where our population is growing at a high rate. We have a low infant mortality rate. We have a booming economy. So America is actually better than Europe, than England. Right. And the result then is going to be what's called Creole patriotism. Right? Creole patriotism. I kind of did these backwards. I just did this yesterday. Right. But the outcome is going to be. One of the outcomes is going to be Creole patriotism. Creole. Just so you know, Creole is somebody who's born in America, but they come from somewhere else, but their parents come from Somewhere else, right? So. So if I was born, if my parents came to Virginia from England and they would be. They would be actually not be Creoles, but when they had me as a child, I would be a Creole, right? Do you follow what I'm saying here? The thing though, is that those people that come from England by, from the point of view of people's attitude at the time are still superior people, but the, the Creole is inferior from my point of view. Does that make sense to you guys? We're, again, we're going to talk about this in terms of Spanish America as well, right? So, so what happens then is that, is that the Creoles, the Americans, North Americans, you don't usually think of Americans as Creoles. You think usually as French, right? Or Louisiana. But in fact, it's also in North America, the Creoles or the, the res. The natives of North America develop this sense of unity, right? It's not like they're all ready at this point to say, oh yeah, we're big buddies with Virginia Colony or South Carolina colony or whatever, but we do recognize that we're different from the British, right? So this creates a sense of, of difference in the Americas that will lead them to be able to imagine breaking away from the British Empire because they couldn't break away from the British Empire before because they were Americans. It would be kind of like if Nevada decided that they were going to break away from America. Well, they can't break away from America. They're Americans. You see what I'm saying? So it's not something that usually people will think about, right? But if all of a sudden everybody started picking on Nevada and saying, all you people from Nevada are stupid and bad, right? Then they'd start to think, well, we shouldn't even be part of this anymore, right? And so. And so that's what happens with the American colonies, right? And then going hand in hand with that, after the war was over, the British Parliament decided to tax the Americans to pay for the war. Now that seems like it should be fair because they were being defended. The Americans actually made out, came out pretty well from the war in terms of what they gained. The problem was that the Americans were not represented in Parliament, right? Which meant that, I mean, Americans paid taxes. Americans pay taxes to their own local assemblies, right? But Americans didn't pay taxes to Parliament because they weren't represented in Parliament. And you guys will remember from what we talked about with Locke last Thursday that in order to, in. In order to be taxed, I have to give consent. And if I can't give consent, then you don't have a right to tax me. Instead of what? That you're forcing me to pay you a tax even though I'm not able to give consent? That's the same as theft, isn't it? And it puts us in a state of war, doesn't it? Because if you're taking money from me and I don't give you permission, that's theft. That's a state of war. You're taking away part of my liberty. And I have a right and even a duty to defend my, my liberty. You guys are with me in the form of this property. Okay, so that's going to be the discontent between the Americans and the British. The British eventually are going to, are going to become more and more stubborn and hard headed toward the Americans and the Americans will become more and more stubborn and hard headed against the British until eventually there is a break with the Declaration of Independence. All right, you guys are with me. Questions, Comments about this. You guys understand what I'm saying here, right? Okay. The reason why I'm asking is because when I ask you guys something, you have a hard time answering me. Okay, let's talk about the Declaration of Independence. We talked about Locke and Liberty, right? What happens is that the argument that I just gave you, which is the argument that Locke made, was that because the British are taking my property without my consent, then I'm obligated, actually they're placing themselves in a state of war with me and I'm obligated to throw off that government and create a new government that comes directly from Locke. All right, you guys are with me. Questions, Comments about this. All right, but remember that Locke wrote all men are created equal. Right? When Locke wrote all men are created equal, which men was he talking about? Men who own property. Right, the colonists? No, no, he was talking about all men, meaning all people, because they didn't. Men, both men and women. Right. So all men. But did all men remain equal? No, no, no. How did people become unequal? Through acquisition of property. Acquisition of property. And so what happens then is that the people who own property actually have a stake in the government. Because the purpose of government is what? To protect the property of people. Exactly. The purpose of government is to protect my property. Right? So, so here's what happens. These people who decide to have a revolution against the English are the rich people in America, okay? And because they're the people that have property and they're the ones that are actually losing their property, but they need, they can't just fight. It can't be just the rich people against the British Army. And so what happens is that they have to convince the population that they're fighting for more than just property. Right? You can't. Let's say, let's say that somebody's threatening to take my car away from me. And I say, okay, guys, I want you to put your life on the line to defend my car. Are you going to do that? I don't think so. Right. You see what I'm saying? And it's the same thing with these people living in America. Most people don't really have this idea of a revolution anyway. And all of a sudden I'm being called upon to protect the property of somebody who I may even own money to, whatever, right? So what happens then is that the definite definition of liberty is going to shift from the ownership of property to personal liberties, rights, human rights, civic rights like freedom of speech and freedom of the press, freedom of religion and right to a jury trial. All these different things. Right? Okay, this is, this is by. When we. When we look at the beginning of the American Revolution, that's what the rebel. The revolution is about taxation. But by the end of the revolution, the revolution is about rights. Essentially what happens is that the American Revolution really starts off as a conservative revolution, but it ends up as a more radical revolution. It becomes radicalized in the process of it. Okay, here's your with me questions comments. Now, anybody in their right mind would know that the Americans couldn't defeat the British, but they did, okay? And the reason why was because the Americans were able to make an alliance with France, who, remember, is great enemy of Britain. One thing I didn't tell you, in the Seven Years War, the French lost all of their holdings in America. Okay? So the French were the big losers in the Seven Years War, right? And so they have. They have a resentment against the British and they want to do anything they can to help to hurt the British, okay? And if that includes helping the Americans, then yeah, we should do that. And so they do. The French actually defend the Americans. They form an alliance with the United States. And the result of that is going to be that the revolution is able to come to an end, a successful end for the Americans. All right? Now one thing we should always keep in mind about this French alliance is the French were not the least bit interested in liberty. Okay? The French. The only reason why the French were involved was because they wanted to hurt England, Right? You get what I'm saying? But France was an absolute monarchy which we'll talk about in just a couple minutes here. Right. And they could care less about. In fact, they were afraid of the American idea of liberty. Because the American idea of liberty essentially is an embodiment of the principles of the Enlightenment. And if you guys will recall, the main project of the Enlightenment is to do what? To overthrow the monarchy. Monarchy. What did we start talking about at the beginning? Not just the monarchy, but the old order, the ancient regime, which includes the monarchy and the clergy. You guys are with me. The whole order. What happens is that the United States creates the very first government through the Constitution of 1787. That's the one we still use, more or less, mostly less. But at any rate, that the Constitution embodies these principles of the Enlightenment. Democracy, secularism and capitalism. Remember we talked about that last Tuesday, I think. Okay, so when we put all three of these things together, what it's normally called is classical liberalism, but what I call it is liberty with an exclamation point. And the reason why I do it is kind of like it's a code word. It just makes it easier. And what happens with the American Revolution is it starts off as a tax dispute between American rich people and the British Parliament, and it ends up with this idea of remaking the whole world. Right. Thomas Paine wrote in Common Sense, which is one of the kind of motivating documents of the American Revolution. We have the. We have the opportunity to begin the world anew. We're going to restart the world. But when we restart the world, we're going to do it without the old order. We're going to just get rid of the old order, and we're going to replace it with these principles of the Enlightenment or liberty. Right. And so when Americans come out of the war, they not only have won their own country, but they also come out with this sense of mission. And that mission is to spread these ideas everywhere. That's what we're going to call the revolution of liberty, the revolution of liberty. And the American idea was that the spark of liberty was struck in America, but it's going to start a flame that will encompass the world. That makes sense, you guys. So it starts in America, but the Americans believe that these ideas will spontaneously move to overthrow the French monarchy and the English monarchy and the Spanish monarchy and all the monarchies, and replace them with liberal governments. Okay, you guys are following me here. So. So this is one of the main kind of outcomes of the American Revolution is not only that the Americans were the first ones to establish an Enlightenment government, but that they created this idea that liberty was the right of every human being and it was inevitable that eventually everybody would be ruled that way. Okay? Does that make sense, you guys? Questions, comments? Now we're going to move on, okay? Unless you're. Unless you have any questions about the American Revolution, we're going to move across the Atlantic and we're going to talk about the French Revolution, okay? Now remember what I just talked about, the revolution of liberty, okay? And what happened in France, partially as a result of the American Revolution, was that the government went broke, right? It was broke because of its long wars with England, and it was because of also supporting the American Revolution. And it went broke also because there was an era of a famine, essentially a bad crops in France and people didn't have food. Right. You guys may or may not have heard of the people who were demonstrating in the free story, sorry, demonstrating in the streets for bread. And you may or may not have heard of the Queen Marie Antoinette, who said, let them eat cake, which she probably didn't say that. Okay? That's probably the story. But the point of it is that that was what the issue was. People were starving and they wanted the government to do something about it. Right? And the only way that the government could do anything about it because it was broke, was it had to raise taxes. So the king. Now we're talking about Louis xvi, right? Louis xvi. The king decides to call the Estates General. What is the Estates General again? It's when you call all three of those factions together. Exactly. All three. All three elements of the. Of the society. So that's the nobility, the clergy and the. And the peasants. Right. And they come together. King calls the Estates General in order to raise taxes because of, like I said, bread. People are starving. Right. But they're not able to. This Estates General isn't working the way it used to work, because now the people, the Third Estate, the. The peasants, but not just the peasants. Now it's what we call the bourgeoisie. Why do we call them bourgeoisie? Because they come from the bourges. What's a bourgeois? Bourge is a city. Right. So the bourgeoisie are the people who come from the cities and they have a voice. And this voice is the voice of the Enlightenment. And when the first and second estates choose not to listen to them, they walk out of the Estates General and they go to the King's tennis court and form what's called the tennis court assembly. And at this tennis court assembly, they declare themselves to be the National Assembly. Right. And they. They essentially demand from the king that unless he grants a constitution, they're not going to rejoin the Estates General. Okay? So now a couple of things that are really interesting about this. The first one is that when the Third Estate walked out of the states of the Estates General and formed the tennis court assembly, they were motivated by speakers from America like Thomas Jefferson. Right? And so this tells us that Thomas Jefferson believed very much in this idea of the revolution of liberty, Right? That liberty was going to spread now, and it started in America. Now it's going to spread to France. And he wrote about, eventually it's going to spread to England and all these other places, Right? So the French Revolution in many ways was motivated by the American Revolution, by the ideals of the American Revolution, but at the same time, it's much more radical. Okay? So you'll remember that the American Revolution started as a tax dispute. This starts as a dispute over government, over who can actually govern, and especially concerning the rights of the people. And you have to understand that in France, the people didn't have rights. In England, people were used to rights, but in France, the people didn't have rights. Okay? And so here what happens is that this assembly that comes together, issues a document, creates a document called the Declaration of the Rights of Man, okay? And the kind of motivating slogan, I guess you could say of the. Of the French Revolution is liberte, egalite, fraternite, which means liberty, equality and freedom. Right? And they write in the. They write in the document all men are born and remain free and equal. This is different from the American Declaration because the American Declaration said all men are created equal. Right. But did the American Declaration assume that all men would remain equal? No. Right. What the French Revolution does is it radicalizes the American Revolution by making it from the very beginning about the rights of the people rather than about property. Okay, you guys are with me. And then as part of this, I just put this here just so you guys know what it means when people say the storming of the Bastille. The Bastille was a prison in Paris, and the people stormed the Bastille as a symbol of the monarch's authority, and they freed the one priesthood that was in there. Right, but that is actually what's celebrated as the. The French Independence Day. It's July 14, 1789. Okay? July 14, 1789. The storming of the Bastille really didn't accomplish anything, but it was a symbol of the people refusing to obey the monarch. Okay? And then eventually what happens is that the. The king agrees to establish a constitution and establishes a national assembly. All right, you guys are with me. He agrees to it, but he doesn't really. He doesn't really buy it. He doesn't like the idea of being subject to a constitution. He believes that he has the right to rule from God. Do we know anybody else that, that thought that. You guys remember Charles the First from England? What did. What do we know about him? Charles the first and the English Civil War. This is almost. This is almost a century earlier, right? Something about the war with Parliament. Right. You went to war with Parliament over what, the Magna Carta? Raising taxes. Oh, no. Over raising taxes. Right, right. He was. What happened to him? So he was put on trial, and then he was found guilty of essentially turning on the people and sent to death. Treason. Treason, right. How did they kill him? Well, I believe I. I don't remember how they actually executed him, but they. They. They cut off his head. Oh, that's right. Because decapitation was. Decapitation was reserved as death for nobles because nobles deserved a quick and painless death rather than having to suffer like the peasants who were hung and burned and stuff like that. Okay. Anyway. Jolly old England. That's what they say. Right. Anyway, keep that in mind here for a second. And what happens then is that the king, as I mentioned to you, doesn't really buy this whole rule by the people thing. And he's conspiring with his relatives in Austria to raise an army to put down the revolution. And at one point, then he decides to make a run for it. But he is. He and his wife and his retinue are intercepted and they are imprisoned, and then they are put on trial and they are both convicted of treason and executed. Does this sound familiar? Okay, I shouldn't laugh about that. I guess. So then the result of this, then is that the government, which was a constitutional monarchy, is essentially seized by a group of extreme radicals. Right. The Jacobins are. The reason why they call them Jacobins is because they met at the Jacobin Club in Paris. Right. But they were extreme, extreme liberals. So if we thought about. Let's say. Let's think about it in terms of American politics. We have. Let's say who's a moderate Republican? Say, what's his name? The guy who ran for president from Utah? Romney. So we're gonna say he's a. He's a. Wrong. He's a. He's a conservative. And then we have, say Biden is in the middle somewhere, and way over here we have AOC. Right. And about 10% beyond that is where the Jacobins are. They're just way radical, right? And what they do is that they enforce conformity with principles of the revolution. Meaning that what they do is that if you are against the revolution, you are an enemy of the state and therefore you deserve to die. Right? So now a couple of things are happening at the same time. The one thing is that the other European powers, England, Austria and Spain, are going to go to war against the French revolutionaries, right? And at the same time, and the French will be fighting this war against all these great powers. And at the same time the French government is going to be at war with itself or the French people will be at war with themselves. And so the Jacobins then are executing anybody who is a member of the nobility, anybody who is a member of the clergy. The clergy is outlawed, the Church is outlawed. The Cathedral of Notre Dame becomes the Temple of Reason where they hire some woman to stand dressed up in red, white and blue and could be worshiped as the Goddess of Reason. And this is, well, that's what they call the Reign of Terror, Right, The Reign of Terror. In the Reign of terror, approximately 40,000 people are, are killed at the guillotine, right? But, and you know, I think it's because of this, it's because of this basically this unconceivable, unforeseen consequence of the revolution spinning out of control, that eventually people give up on it. The people say, well, we don't support this and there will be a. Most of the leaders of the Jacobins will be killed. I put this picture here. This is a famous painting by Jacques David. It's called the Death of Marat. And he's one of the French Jacobins, essentially, right? And he was killed in his bath. And this is what happens. Robespierre, who was also another French leader of the Jacobins, is beheaded, right? And this is what happened to the revolutionaries in France is that they were all killed, assassinated. Right? And eventually a conservative group called the Directory will take over and rule through the continuation of the war with the rest of the continent. Okay with me, Questions, comments about this. The reason why I point this out is because America's revolutionary leaders all died in their beds. They all died of natural causes. But the French revolutionary leaders were assassinated, killed by their own revolution. And this is going to be something that we see in many other places during this so called era of democratic revolutions. All right, you guys are with me. Questions, comments about this. Okay, we'll move on now. Almost done here. Good time. Good. Okay, so in 1799, a corporal from the French army who rises through the ranks and becomes a general, eventually seizes control of the Directory. Remember, that was the conservative movement. And he rules through, in theory, three people, which is called the consulate. But in reality, eventually he will have himself crowned emperor. And one of his major accomplishments as the emperor of France is that he publishes a new code of laws called the Napoleonic Code. Right. And the reason why this is significant is because much of the world today is ruled by the Napoleonic Code. Up until the time of the French Revolution, most of the most. The Western world, at any rate, was ruled by what was left of Roman law. And that's where English law comes from. So America is still ruled, in essence, by the vestiges of Roman law. Right. But the rest of the world, the rest of Europe particularly, is ruled by this new code of laws that comes out of the Age of Enlightenment. Okay, you guys are with me on this. Questions? Comments? All right, moving on. Now, he tries to conquer Europe. And one of the things that. This is incredibly complex and a lot of things going on, but one of the kind of questions about this era is was Napoleon a liberal or not? Right? And really, it's really something that divides scholars because Napoleon said that he was fighting wars of liberation throughout Europe to free these countries from the old order, from the regime. And one of the accomplishments essentially of the Napoleonic era is that the ancien regime is gone after this. Right, okay. But at the same time, he, when he would conquer an area, he didn't leave them to govern themselves. They were all governed by France. And so the question is, was he really liberating people or was he conquering? Right. And, and I really don't know the answer to that. All I do know is that he made a couple of really stupid mistakes, Right? And his biggest mistake was that he invaded Moscow, he invaded Russia in the winter, and his army was defeated there. And that was the beginning of the end of his. Of his fall. Okay, let me just. Before I go to that part of it, let me just mention here that one of the things that France that Napoleon does is he forms an alliance with Spain. This is at the beginning, right? He forms an alliance with Spain, but eventually he will actually occupy Spain and capture the French king. Right, Excuse me, sorry, Capture the Spanish king. And the significance of that is that when he captures the Spanish king, because the nature of the Spanish Empire is that all authority resides in the king. Once the king is gone, from the American point of view, there is no legitimate authority. So they all declare independence. Okay. And this is going to be the beginning of the Spanish American wars of independence. All right? But we'll talk about that in a couple weeks. Just for now. We're gonna. I just want you to know that so that when we get back to it, you'll remember. Okay? But anyway, so what happens then is that Napoleon eventually invades Russia. He's defeated in Russia, and then finally will be forced to abdicate in 1814, and he's sent into exile. But then he comes back and he rules for another hundred days until he. He is defeated. His army is defeated at Waterloo, which is in Belgium, and then he will be exiled to St Helena, where he dies of probably lead poisoning from paint. Okay. But anyway, the. And the end of that is that the monarchy is restored, okay? So obviously, Louis 16th can't come to the throne, but Louis the 18th, I think, comes to the throne. And so the end of the. Of the Napoleonic era is settled at a thing called the Congress of Vienna in 1814. Right. And just put that somewhere in your mind in a little cubby, because we're going to come back to it later. It's very important. Right. For now, we're just going to leave it. Okay? But at any rate, the monarchy is restored, essentially, the revolution has failed, and Europe tries to go back to business as usual. It's not going to be able to. But that's a story for a different day. All right, questions? Comments about any of this? Okay, now let's talk about some other revolutions. Now, there's actually two that do. Well, actually, there's many. Right. But there's two different ones. One I'm going to talk about today, and the other ones we're going to talk about on a different day. Right? So today I want to talk about the Haitian revolution. Haitian. Haiti is. You're going to see this in. It's part of the video that you're watching coming up this week. Right? But Haiti is one half of the island of Santo Domingo, which is also Hispaniola. That's the island that the Spanish found. Right. But half of it, the western half of it belongs to France, and it is one of the most prosperous areas of the world, okay? It is a source of enormous amounts of revenue for France. Okay? But the revenue comes from essentially from plantation crops like sugar and. Well, mostly sugar, other things, too, but mostly sugar, tobacco, things like that. Right. The point, though, is that those plantations are. The labor for those plantations comes from African slaves, okay. Unlike American slaves. And slaves in North America generally have been seasoned. What they call. What they Mean by seasoned is that they spent a season somewhere else, and then they're. Then they're brought to America. Right. But the slaves in the Caribbean were directly from Africa. So that really means that the slaves in the Caribbean were a lot less likely to be obedient. Okay. And so what happens is that here we have the social structure. Essentially there were 40,000 white colonists, 28,000 Jean de Couleurs, which means that free black people, essentially, and 500,000 slaves. Now, think about that size just a little bit here. What do you see? What's the relationship? What's the ratio to slaves to. Not slaves. Way more slaves. What's the ratio? Many more slaves. Right. And so the people, the colonists were able to maintain control over the slaves through fear. And many of them were convinced that the slaves would never revolt. Right. But because this is. Now we're talking about actually 1799 and 1798. Okay. And this is after the French Revolution. So these ideas of the French Revolution, the ideas of liberty, egalit, fraternity, are something that the patients know about, including the slaves. Right. And eventually what ends up happening in 1791, there's a slave revolt led by a former slave to San Luverture, this guy right here. Right. And he is able to gain control of Haiti. Right. It's called Saint Domingue at the time, but we call it. Eventually they're going to change the name to Haiti. Okay. And when they do, they issue a constitution granting equality of citizenships for all residents. Right. So, so what does that mean? That means that the Haitian Revolution, the slave revolt in Saint Domingue is the only. Well, first off, it's the only successful slave revolution in history. And it's also the only revolution that results in a guarantee of racial equality for all citizens. Right. That didn't happen in the French Revolution. That didn't happen in the American Revolution. Right. Only in this revolution in Saint Domingue. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? All right, so now in 1802, I don't want to go into this because I have time right now. Right. But. Well, just to say. Let's just say 1802, Napoleon tries to restore French colonial control, and he tries to reacquire Saint Domingue, but he's not able to do that. He's defeated. The French are defeated, and the Republic of Haiti is declared. Okay. And that seems like it's happy ending, but it's not really. And the reason why is because none of the other countries actually recognize Haiti as an independent country. Many other countries Impose an economic embargo against Haiti and in 1825. Well, first off, let me just ask you, why do you think this is? Why do you think the United States would refuse to recognize Haiti? They have no credit. And it's not just the other. It's not just. Well, that's not it, really. If you think there's something that is causing these major powers, the British, the French, the Spanish, and the Americans to not recognize. To oppose Haiti because they don't want to actually see actual equality rolled out. Well, that's partially that. I mean, but it's a little bit different from that because the equality. How did the slaves gain their equality? They don't want to. Slave nations, don't want to see a successful slave revolt and to see the actual. That actual community be successful because that would show to the slaves in their own country that, why don't we rise up? We can actually make this work. All right, Just like home Depot. You nailed it. That's exactly right. Okay. And so. And then later, when Haiti is much poorer and France is much stronger, France forces Haiti to pay 150 million gold francs, which is like something like five times their annual income. And they're forced to pay it, and they're not able to complete the payment until 1947. So that leaves Haiti. If I were to ask you about Haiti, what was the first thing you would say about Haiti to me, if I. What does it tell me about Haiti? It's just sad. It's a community that could never rebuild itself because it's never had the right monetary. We were to look at it. Okay, so its condition is what it is. The third world worst country in the Americas. Right. You've heard that before. The poorest country in the Americas. Right. So let's watch this little video. It's about eight minutes, and we'll see what it is. Mentioned. Haiti. And this is what you'll likely hear. Poverty, natural disaster, now political violence. Every report about Haiti has to include the line that it's the poorest country in the western hemisphere. But hold on for a second. Something's missing in this conversation. Right? We need to be all thinking about the relationship of what we're calling poverty in Haiti and the relation to the richness of the rest of the world. And how did the rest of the world get so rich? Let's start with France. Imagine if you were enslaved, and after fighting for your independence, you were forced to spend the next couple of generations paying compensation to those who colonized you. Reparations for slaveholders is A new one for me, that is exactly what happened to Haiti. This is punishment for their unwillingness to remain under the yoke of slavery. In 1697, France and Spain ended a war with each other by dividing up the Spanish colony Hispaniola. Through the labor of enslaved indigenous and black people, Saint Domingue became the world's most profitable colony, exporting sugar, coffee and indigo. Enslaved people in Saint Domingue suffered some of the harshest and cruelest slave punishments in the entire Atlantic world. Life expectancy was extremely low, such that at the moment of the Haitian revolution breaking out In August of 1791, the vast majority of enslaved people had only been on the island for two or three years. They were from whatever nation that they had been captive and brought over. And they basically said no self liberated Africans led the Haitian revolution and ended slavery in present day Haiti and the Dominican Republic. After 12 years of fighting the French colonial power which had tried to reintroduce slavery, the formerly enslaved people of Saint Domingue officially declared independence and renamed their country Haiti. Many countries, including the United States, refused to recognize Haitian independence in fear of slave rebellions. And France refused to accept Haiti's independence unless Haiti paid 150 million franc as so called compensation for lost revenues from slavery. That was around 10 times Haiti's annual budget. But Haiti couldn't decline the indemnity request since the French came ready for war, carrying more than 500 cannons on their ships. Articles from that period show that the French king knew the Haitian government wouldn't be able to repay the debt which decimated Haiti's economy. Haitians had extremely, extremely high taxes and most of the tax revenue was paid for the indemnity. This left the education system, public infrastructures, and healthcare underdeveloped. Agricultural land was also depleted to grow cash crops that paid for the debt but couldn't feed the country. It took Haiti 122 years to pay off its debt and required taking high interest loans. It's a self fulfilling prophecy to say that Haiti is poor and Haiti must be. And I think the better question whenever a people, an entire people is characterized as poor with this word is to say not why are they poor, but why aren't you? But it's not just the French who have played a role in Haiti's misery. So the United States has intervened in Haitian affairs. There's actually. I'm going to just stop right there. There's actually another three or four minutes talking about the role of the United States in haiti during the 20th and 21st century. And it's not pleasant. But any. At any rate, I don't want to actually spend the time on it now because this is where our particular focus is on this age of independence, theoretically. You guys follow what I'm saying here? Questions? You can go back to this if you want, because you guys all have links to this and go back and look at it later if you'd like. So tell me what you think about the video. It makes sense. Let me see your hands. Let me see your. Let me see your hands. Everybody show me your hands. Really literal hands. Well, whatever. I just want. I just want to know that everybody's still listening. Did everybody watch the video? Okay, so are we missing anybody? Let's see. There's quite a few of you that aren't actually listening. Diego, Eric, Sammy, Seamus, Ryan, Cassandra. All right, you know, I could write all this down and use that to take role, but I'm not going to right now. So tell me about the video. Well, it's kind of a good parallel for what the United States does with other, like, socialist countries that have tried to get their act together, like Cuba and putting a bunch of sanctions on it to make sure to ensure that it doesn't work out so that just like what they did to Haiti, which was to ensure that the result of the slave revolt, even though it was successful, would be a failed country. Did it surprise you? Not really, unfortunately. Yeah. Let me just. Let's just talk about. We talked about three different revolutions today, and we're going to talk about some more in a couple weeks in Spanish America. Were all of those revolutions. Would we consider all of those revolutions a success? Well, they did cause some sort of change, I guess so, yes. The cause change, but I mean was the. Depends on the metric outcome of it. Was the country. Right. Was. Let me just ask it this way. I'll use the raking. I used the Reagan measure. Were they better off after the revolution than they were before? Haiti, no. America, yes. France, no. So. Well, I mean, people. But go ahead. By if the people were better off, like, do you mean only like in. In the Americas or are you talking about, like, also France and the U. S? I'm talking about all of the. I'm talking about all of the revolutions that we talked about. Well, I think I'm gonna have to disagree with France not being beneficiary, I guess. Yeah, because. Okay, go ahead. Because at least after the French revolution, like, it wasn't so heavy or reliant on. On the market, you know, like, France wasn't as Reliant, Right? So, so they were, there were more self governing. They did achieve civil rights. I mean, the question is, did the people Haiti achieve? And the answer to that, I think has to do with the question of economic justice, right? If you're not, if you're so poor that you can't afford to live, have you achieved civil rights? You know, and I'm not going to answer that question. I'm just going to leave that one out there for you guys. But what I wanted to point out to you here, and it's not, it's not like we haven't talked about all of the revolutions yet, okay? But you'll notice that when I, when I looked at the very first, the type of my lecture was the age of democratic revolutions. And I put democratic in the. I don't care. Stop. Okay? I put democratic in quotes. And I put it in quotes for a reason. And that reason is because that's the way up until the last 50 years or so, people in the west would look back on this era as an age of the rise of democracy, of the spread of liberty with an exclamation point, right? But if we look at it historically, the only country that had a revolution in this period that ends up with anything even remotely resembling democracy was the United States. Every other country essentially descends into decades of civil war, right? And in the outcome of those decades, it depends. Some of them end up eventually becoming democracies in the 20th century, but many of them fall under the rule of caudillos or local warlords and things like that. So this designation of this time period as an age of democratic revolutions is euphemistic at best, right? Because this was an era when democracy was a, was a moving, a motivator during this time, but it wasn't successful in very many places until much later than this. Okay. So anyway, I just wanted to. To kind of show you that the reason why is because the way that if we were to look at this, at the historiography of this period as this rise of liberal democracy, then we might, as many people did during my education, look at the rise of democracy as inevitable. Right? Keep in mind that that goes hand in hand with the Enlightenment meta narrative that I talked about, which was that through science, technology and education, people inevitably achieve liberation and enlightenment. Right? It's this idea of progress. So the, the historiography that identifies an age of democratic revolutions is part of that meta narrative, but it doesn't match reality. Reality is a much more. It's much more messy than that does that make sense, you guys? Questions, comments? Does that make you sad that I said that? You have to. You have to say something. Bobby, what are you laughing about? You're not laughing at me, are you? No. Yeah, it was sad. He's not even listening, huh? I think we have a sound lag going on to Professor. So sometimes you're saying something and then it takes a little while for. For it to come through. Well, I like to give you a little time to think about questions, but like, like George Bush said, my patience is not endless. What do you guys think about this? Have you guys. Do you guys. Were you guys. What's the word I'm looking for? Were you guys. Did you guys learn about this era as the age of democratic revolutions, as kind of a era of the rise of democracy and liberty? I only knew about the French coming after the American Revolution, and I always had a hunch that they were related, but I didn't really connect any other revolutions. Okay, so you didn't really know much. You guys never heard about Simone Bolivar? Yes. He's the only guy I learned about from Latin America in my. In my. In my educational career. So. But. And what did Simon Bolivar do? Anybody remember that? Right? Yeah, I think he liberated or I mean, I guess he declared independence for Venezuela and Colombia. Venezuela, Right, Right. So it was Grand Colombia is what it was called at the time. But the main thing is that he's looked upon as a hero of Spanish America from the point of view of North Americans because he's seen as a liberator. Right. You guys get what I'm saying? Liberator. It was actually much more complicated than that. But at any rate, that's the thing that I remember now from my own education, that's the only thing I learned about revolutions in Spanish America was Simone Bolivar. Right. And so therefore, you know, those must have been revolutions of liberty, just like our revolution. Right. So I just. I'm just going to leave it right there and let you guys go and let you know that on Thursday, remember that we are not meeting, although I will be here if you need to talk to me. And some of you are going to show up because you're not listening and you don't remember that supposed to be here on Thursday. And at any rate, do you watch the video and do your discussion and then we'll come back next Tuesday and talk about the industrial revolution, all right? Questions? Comments? Hasta, baby. All right then. Thank you, Professor. Thank you, Professor. Have a good one. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks, Professor. Have a good one. It.