Sa Satan it. Is there supposed to be music this time? There is. I haven't started it yet. Okay. Just making sure. So if you don't hear music within the next minute, just speak up and I'll try to fix it. Like, right now. I'm gonna start it right now. Dr. Livingston, I presume. Stepping out of the jungle blue into the midday sun what did you find there? Did you stand a while and star? Did you meet anyone? I've seen butterflies galore I've seen people big and small I've still not found what I'm looking for we're all looking for someone we're all looking for someone we're all looking for someone Captain Scott, you were so bold now you're looking rather cold out there in the snow what did you find there? Did you stand a while and stare? Did you meet anyone? I've seen polar bears and seals I've seen giant Antarctic hills I've still not found what I'm looking for we're all looking for someone we're all looking for someone we're all looking for someone Columbus, where are you bound? So you think the world is round Sail off in the blue what did you find there? Did you stand a while and stare? Did you meet anyone? There are Indians by the score in many places that I saw I've still not found what I'm looking for Sam. Did you guys like my song? Come on, you guys, let's turn on your camera. Yeah, I think it sounded all right. You know, I don't know if you guys have ever heard that. That's from the. That song. That album came out in 1969 and. But what I. Does anybody know why I played that song today? You had to. You had to listen to the beginning of it when it said Dr. Livingston, I presume. Go ahead. It was. It was talking about, like, the jungle and stuff. Right. I heard something like that. Right. Well, it starts off by saying, Dr. Livingston, I presume, which was a famous encounter between an explorer, Colonel Sanders. Stanley. Not Colonel Sanders, that's a different guy. But Colonel Stanley and Dr. Livingston, who was in. Who was in Central Africa. And it was in the late 19th century, at a time when most Europeans had no idea what was in Africa. So they were looking for Dr. Livingston. And when he found him, he said, Dr. Livingston, I presume. And that was very famous. So that's why. Talking about today. And so I thought that song was better than some depressing song about imperialism or something like that. So any questions or comments about anything before we move On. Let me just. I do have a couple things to say, as usual, I want us to look at here. Okay, so this is. I did put up the new discussion, which will be due next Thursday. And then before, before today is over, I will also have a quiz for this week and then. But I wanted to point out about this discussion. It's going to be this. A little bit different format than the others that we've done. Because what I've noticed is that, I mean, today the discussion is due and it was only like four submissions. And so I can't really imagine how you can have much of a discussion if you wait until the last three hours to turn everything in. So what I've done is I've made the due date on this Monday. You have to turn in your, your submission by Monday at midnight, but the discussion will remain open until Thursday at midnight. So that way you can do your submission and then you can go back and look at everybody else's submissions and have discussion. Does that make sense? Do you guys understand what I'm doing here? You guys understand what I'm doing and why I'm doing. I'm not doing it to punish you, but I want to see interaction between you guys. In all honesty, that's how most of the discussions that I've had, like through English classes and stuff like that, they've always had a initial due date for the response, and then there's always been like two or three days before that where the risk. The two or three or whatever, just critiquing or commenting on your others have been. Well, that's. I, I came to that conclusion all by myself because I'm. I'm really new at this. Right. But I would like to say that I forgot what I was going to say. I want to. I want to say don't get old because you don't remember what you're talking about. No, I want you. I want you to. To be able to respond to each other. And that was the only way I could think of to get you guys to, to motivate you guys to turn this in earlier. So what one thing I wanted to say was that I know exactly because I've been a student for probably 50 years and, or even longer, actually. And, and I know that you always wait till the last minute to do everything right. So if I make the last minute a little bit earlier, hopefully you'll get it. You'll. You'll be in and able to discuss. So like I said, I'm not mad at you, but I do Want to see you guys do some interaction. All right? Questions, comments about any of that. And then recall that on Tuesday morning, we're going to meet at the very beginning of class, which is 1245, and I will present the. The midterm questions. And then you guys will on your own to enter the midterm. I'm going to write kind of detailed instructions. The main thing to keep in mind is that it's. It's a group activity, so you can divide up how, who's going to answer what, or whatever you want to do. But in the end, there's only going to be one submission. So everybody's grade will be contingent on that one submission. So one thing that I've seen in the past is that students will be assigned to answer certain questions. And the students that's assigned to answer a question will be completely off mark. And the other students don't review it, and they end up turning it in and it causes their grade to suffer. So you guys need to be helping each other, making sure that you get the answers correct. Does that make sense to you guys? Questions, comments about this? Because here's what I really want. I want Everybody to get 100, okay? And I've set it up to make that possible, but it's really going to be up to you guys to do that. Okay? Questions, comments about anything. And also I will have all of the. I will have all of the videos, the recordings up by our meeting on Tuesday. Okay? So that's, That's a commitment that I will make sure that that happens. So you have that material available to you, okay? Questions, comments about any of this? I have a question. Okay, so on the, on the calendar, it says that the. That the quiz is due to Dame. Yeah, that was last week's quiz. Did you guys get an email from me about the quiz that I screwed it up, that there were actually supposed to be only 10 questions, but somehow I got in, ended up with 20, and I told you I fixed it. But I also said that if you had already taken the quiz, in fact, let's just do this. Anybody that took the quiz can get it for extra credit so we don't have to go back and do it again. And you still have the possibility of doing that before midnight tonight. But I'm not going to count this one towards your grade because I screwed it up. Okay? Does that answer your question or does that make it more complicated so if we do this test again, we can get extra credit on it? Well, if you've already done it, you know Whatever points you got will be added as extra credit. But those who haven't done still have to do it. Right. Like you, you said that it wasn't counting towards your grade. But it will for those who haven't done it yet. No, it's not gonna. If you don't do it at all, then you don't get any extra credit, but it won't count against your grade. Oh, okay. Just do it. That's what. Yeah, no, that's what, that's what the extra. And extra credit means. No, I understand. I. Never mind. It's all right. No worries. I mean, it's better to clarify than to, to be ignorant. Okay. Ignorant means. I don't know, it doesn't mean you're stupid or something like that. Okay, so any other questions about any of this? Yeah, sorry about the quiz. You know, I ended up. I just screwed it up. So anyway, so it'll be to your benefit. All right, let me go ahead. If, and if there aren't any more questions, I'm going to go ahead and get into the, to the lecture and let me just go ahead and share this again. So we're going to talk about Africa, but before we do that, I'm going to talk a little bit about. About imperialism as a kind of a process. And the first thing before I even do that, I want to show you this. This, this. The cartoon, I guess it is. And it says from the Cape to Cairo. All right, so they're talking about the Cape of Good Hope. And everybody knows where Cairo is. Right. Does anybody know where Cairo is? Right. It's in Egypt. So now, so now is the Cape of Good Hope in. In what part of what part of Africa? Geographic bottom. The bottom. The bottom. The south. Right. And Egypt is in what part of Africa? Right. The north. Right. Okay. So basically they're saying from the Cape to Cairo, that means all of Africa. Right. So what do you guys see happening in this cartoon? Civilization going to battle against perceived barbarism. Okay. All right, so it's civilization and barbarism. And what do you notice about the civilized ones? They look white, like European, Western looking. They're all white. That's true. Right. What about this? Who is this? It actually says, right on the. Says Britannia. So like Britain, maybe? Yeah, Britannia. So what does this say about Britannia? According to the people who made this cartoon, they're the most civilized or the leaders of the civilized world. Right. They're almost like angels in a way. Right. And then what about who's leading the barbarians? Some black guy. Right. Some black guys. Yeah, some black guys reading, leading the barbarians. These guys all have guns. These guys have spears, I think. And I don't see any arrows. They've got. But they've got spears and shields. Right. So what's it. What's the implication here? Do you see any racial implication here? 100%. Tell me about it. What is the implication? Those with dark skin or barbarians are barbarians. Right. And those with light skins are leading the world to civilization. Right. This is actually what's called the civilizing mission. It becomes known as the civilizing mission. And the British did it, the French did it, and the Americans did it too. Right. We're going to talk a little bit about that in a minute. But I just wanted to kind of lay this out to you because this is a contemporary look from people who lived at the time that Africa was being divided up about why the Europeans were in Africa. And what is the answer to that? Why were the Europeans in Africa? According to this cartoon, to civilize it. Even though that's not exactly what they're gonna do. Okay. So the idea is that they're bringing civilization. What was the real reason why they were in Africa? Imperialism. Exactly. Imperialism. Right. So the thing is, what we want to understand is that when this was put forward as the reasoning behind British imperialism in Africa, many people actually believe this. It's very much like in the United States when the United States intervenes in another country and we say we're there to bring democracy. Right. And Americans will say, oh, yeah, I get that. Well, if it's democracy, I'm okay with it. Right. And it's the same thing here. Okay, so. So even though it's. It's not really true that. That the British are bringing civilization, or maybe they are, but that may not be such a good thing. Right, but. But the reality is that a lot of people actually still believe it. Right. So it becomes ontological. You guys understand when I say ontological, what does that mean? Everybody knows that. Why are the British in Africa? Everybody knows that they're barbaric and they need to be civilized. Right. You guys get it? All right, so let me just go away from this then, and let's talk about some of the reasons why countries engage in imperialism. Right. And. Yeah. In imperialism. So imperialism itself. What I really meant to write here was industrialization. I don't know why that's a mistake. See, I'll own up to my mistakes, but this should say industrialization, and I'll fix that later. But what it means essentially is that the manufacturing Plants of countries like Britain were not able to produce goods without resources. And then once they had produced all those goods, they needed to have places to sell them because they couldn't sell them at home. All right, so if you look at this poster here, again, this is the government of Britain justifying imperialism in Africa. And look, in Africa, we actually sell more to the Africans than we get from them, right? And so that's good for us, right? That's good for us because we're able to make money on it. And then it's also good for them because they get to buy our products and become civilized like us. So this is a way of justifying imperialism. Okay, questions? Comments? All right, so the next thing then. And then this is another. It shows the different kinds of resources that can be extracted from different kind, different places in Africa. Okay? So that's the kind of the industrialized part of it. The next one is strategic interest. Strategic interest means that there. Keep in mind that most of what we're talking about happening happened in the late 19th century. So that's between 1850 and say 1914, because that's when the beginning of World War I was. Okay? And so at that time, when the Europeans projected their power around the world, they did it with steam steamships, okay? And railroads. And the steamships couldn't go all the way around the world, so they had to have places where they could stop and refuel before they could go on. And that's one of the reasons, for example, that the, the British take, took control of South Africa was so that they could actually have a place. And the Dutch also have a place to refuel their ships as they were doing business in Asia, right? And then also that's why British took control of Egypt because they wanted to build a canal that would connect their empire in Asia with the home country. So that's a strategic interest. That's one of the reasons why you would want to take control of the country. I think that in the beginning, South Africa was controlled by European powers just for that reason. And then later, later on it was found out that there were diamonds and gold in South Africa and then it would also became industrial or in terms of resources. Okay, questions? Comments? So far. And then the last one has to do with national pride, kind of. The one example, the big example that I can think of in this particular regard is Italy, because Italy didn't have a big industrial plant, right? But Italy thought that they should be because everybody else was an empire. They should be an empire too. And so they did really Two different attempts at controlling Africa. And here's kind of what they thought they were doing. They were planting the Italian flag. And then we have all these Africans worshiping them, although they have guns. I'm not sure exactly how that works. But anyway, the point is that that shows us the idea that if that it could be possible for a country to believe they need an empire just so that they can be considered, or they can consider themselves a first rate power. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions, comments about this. Now the one thing that, I mean, I want to show you kind of the other side of this, it has to do with the issue of social Darwinism that we talked about on Tuesday. And when we said social Darwinism in terms of the relationships between countries, how was that described? How did I describe that? Those that weren't or wouldn't modernize would fall or be taken over. Right. Okay, so remember that the Darwinian model was that whenever there was a change in environment, some species would adapt and survive and those that couldn't adapt would die out, which would leave the surviving group stronger. Right? And that's why they came up with the idea of survival of the fittest. That was actually social Darwinism that, that Darwin later incorporated in his theory. Okay, now so in that case, if we're talking about countries in the world, what would be the change of environment? Ryan? Ryan Gleason, you asked what would be the change in the environment? Say it again. Sorry, my audio is kind of off. So when we're talking about a change of a Darwinian change of environment, when we're talking about countries in the world, what was that change of environment? I'm not sure. Okay, somebody help him out. Somebody. Elvin, tell me, what was that change of environment? You're on mute. I honestly don't know what the change in environment was. See, that's why I, I check you guys, because I want you guys to understand this, okay? Africa. No, no, that wasn't it. Right. What was? It was an economic change. Think about it. An economic change from the medieval to the modern industrialization. What changed? Industrialization. So industrialization. Remember when Darwin spoke, when Darwin wrote, he imagined a change of environment to be something like a, like an ice age or something like that, and that some, some species would survive and others would not. And that was just nature and that's the way it was. Right, but social Darwin said, okay, well, something that was as cataclysmic to relations between countries as an ice age would be the movement from agriculture to industry, from feudalism to manufacturing. Right. And when you make that move from feudalism to manufacturing, some countries will be able to survive and others will not. And those ones that aren't able to survive will end up being colonized by the ones who are. Who do. Right. You guys follow me here. Who are able to survive. Okay, so. So then can you give me an example of a country that was not able to survive this change of environment, which was the topic of our lecture on Tuesday? China, I wasn't sure if you were going to be in Europe. China, we can go anywhere. No, China, China was the country that it was. Remember, it was the pinnacle of power in the middle Ages. But by the time we get to the modern age, China fell behind. China wasn't able to catch up because they refused to catch up. They said, we don't need to catch up, we're already perfect. How could we catch up? Right. And the result of it was that they were carved up like a melon. Okay, you guys understand how that works? So that's that social Darwinism. Okay? The reason why I bring that up is because in the United States, the United States was rapidly industrializing in the late 19th century after the Civil War. And America's leaders were concerned that if they did not control an external empire like other countries, meaning that they didn't adapt to the change of environment, which included imperialism, that the United States would fall behind and suffer the same fate as China. For example, Theodore Roosevelt very much believed that if the United States was going to be a first rate power and survive in this new environment, then it needed to acquire an empire. And that was why he was very aggressive in his relations with other countries, particularly Colombia and Panama. Right. So do you guys hear what I'm saying? So that's the other side of this national pride thing or the other side of this social Darwinism thing, which is that if we don't do it like everybody else is doing it, we're going to. We're not going to be able to survive. You guys get it? Questions, comments about that you guys got. That makes sense. Okay, If I ask again about it later on, Oscar, I want you to be able to answer me, okay? Okay. Let's talk about the civilizing mission. We already kind of introduced that. The idea here is that humanity is on a ascending slope toward civilization. But not every group in humanity and the Europeans describe this as race. Not every race, not every human race is on the same place in this ascent toward civilization. And so here's an example of how we see this ascent towards civilization. There's Civilization up there. And, and what are we doing? We're overcoming oppression, barbarism, ignorance, superstition, brutality, vice, slavery, cannibalism, whatever else. I can't even read it. All right, but what's happening here? We see the British are, are carrying Asians towards civilization. You guys get what I'm saying here? And here. Who is this? Come on, you guys. You guys know who this is? Uncle Sam. It's Uncle Sam. And, and, and what is Uncle Sam doing? This is Cuba. Well, Americans mostly, but also Philippines, right? So, so, for example, the first governor, the first US Governor of the Philippines remarked that it was our duty to civilize our little brown brothers, right? And so here's what, here's the idea then. The idea is the European idea, which is a racist idea, which is that the white countries, the Anglo Saxon countries, are carrying the rest of the world towards civilization. You see? You see what's happening here? All right? So that the reason. So, for example, we'll talk a little bit more about this on next Thursday when we talk about American imperialism. But there was a debate in the United States after the Spanish American War, should the United States acquire an empire or not? And some argued that acquiring an empire was antithetical to democracy. But others responded by saying, well, we need to acquire an empire or else we will be. Will fall behind. Right? And so there was a debate called the imperialist, anti imperialist debate in the United States in the first decade of the 20th century. And into the mix was the British poet Rudyard Kipling, who was a staunch imperialist British imperialist, had spent much time in Asia. He wrote the Jungle Book, if you're familiar with that, the one with Mowgli. And although it wasn't a Disney version, it was a different version. Right? But at any rate, the idea here was he was very much. He very much believed in this idea of the civilizing mission. The idea that we should civilize these people. Never mind that the Indians were civilized while the Britons were running around in the woods naked, painting themselves blue. Right? But that's a different story altogether. The main point here is that they believe they were bringing civilization. And Kipling inserted himself into this imperialist, anti imperialist debate with a poem called the White Man's Burden. And you can read it, you can look it up, it's widely available, right? But the idea here is that, is that it's our responsibility to carry these dark, superstitious people to civilization. Okay? Does that make sense to you guys? And that's going to be what is used As a justification for imperialism. It wasn't just the British and the Americans. The French did it as well. Here's the idea of the French in Southeast Asia, right? They're bringing progress, civilization and whatever that is down there. Commerce, I think. Anyway, you guys get what I'm saying, right? Questions, comments about this. Now let's take a look at a different take on this, right? And this is the other side of the social Darwinism that we talked about a few minutes ago. And that is some countries are able to adapt and survive in the new environment. And because they did that demonstrated their superiority over the countries that couldn't or didn't. And so what ends up happening then is it develops this sense that since we are the superior race, we have the right to take essentially whatever we want. And so when the Germans moved into Africa or when the French moved into Southeast Asia, or when the Japanese moved into Korea, they saw themselves as the superior race. And they, they saw themselves as being justified in holding the colonized people in contempt because they were backwards. Okay, this is, you can see with a Japanese soldier and a Korean elderly man, okay, questions, comments about this, okay? So that's the other side of it. So when you look at this idea of the civilizing mission or a justification, on the one hand it's our duty to bring these people to enlightenment. On the other hand, they don't have a right. They don't have the same rights that we do because we're superior to them. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions, comments about this. Okay, so, and then just to talk briefly about, well, how do these different countries respond? And I'm going to give. This is very, this is a generalization, okay? But there's basically three different responses to colonialism by the British or by the, by the Europeans or even the Americans. And that is emulation, reform and rejection. Okay, so emulation is to adapt to the colonizers culture, right? And I showed you guys this picture before. This is the Japanese cabinet in the last part of the 19th century. And what's interesting about this is that there was this push and I'm sure you guys will see this in the movie, if you haven't already seen it, right, that there was this push toward civilization and enlightenment which meant looking like the west, right? So, so for example, they wanted to intermarry with Westerners so that they can improve their racial stock. And they, they were everything, everything was, they were very enamored with the American flag and things like that because they thought that if we were like them, we could Be on the same level as them, that kind of thing. Right. But at the same time there was a kind of a traditional impulse. Right. So the Japanese did in some ways emulate Westerners and we'll talk more about that in a, in a bit here. But in other ways they kept, they, they kept what they thought was best of their ancient traditions. Right. So that's really the second way. Okay. The first way is emulation. Just adapt to the colonizers culture. And I would say if you were to look at all of the places where we see today, where we see the, the, the end result of imperialism, the place where we could see emulation probably the most would be India, because India is becoming more and more like the West. Okay, so, but what Japan did was it reformed in order to meet the challenge of modernization. And that's what the forced industrialization was all about. They, they, they basically saw that they needed to transform their culture from an agrarian culture to a, to a manufacturing culture, but they still wanted to maintain significant aspects of their indigenous culture, which is still true today. Okay, questions? Comments about this. And then last is rejection. And that is we're not having it, basically. And one example of that would be in South Africa there was a kingdom that was ruled by Zulus. And in the kingdom, basically what ended up happening was that the British controlled South Africa and they made a, they presented an ultimatum to the, to the Zulu king to surrender sovereignty to the British and they refused to do that. And the result was a war. Okay. The Anglo Zulu War of 1879. The problem of course, was that they were no match for the British. And so the, the Zulu war only lasted about six years. And then that Zulu country was completely occupied, overtaken, ruled by the British after that. And since then, actually. Okay, questions, Comments? Although they don't, they're not ruled by the British anymore, but they're still, they haven't been able to recover their kingdom. All right, does that make sense to you guys? So basically then the ways that indigenous people will respond to the challenges of colonization are either we're going to try to be just like the colonizing country in order to be able to survive, or we're going to reform our culture to be able to withstand colonization or we're going to reject, we're going to reject it. Okay, but what I'd like for you to think about is what would be the outcome of each of these responses. Right? Just think about that. I'm not going to talk about it right now, but I want you to think about that. All Right. Questions? Comments about any of this. Okay. So that's kind of the big picture. Look at overall. Look at. At imperialism. We're going to do this, probably won't take a long time, but we're going to talk about the scramble for Africa. Okay. Before. Well, let's just say the scramble for Africa starts in about 1885. Right. So keep in mind that the last time we talked about Africa, what was the relationship between African kingdoms and Europeans? So keep in mind that we were talking about Africa at the beginning of the 16th century. Okay. Right. About the same time that the Spanish are discovering America. Okay. What was the relationship between African kingdoms and Europeans used for the. As commodity, the people. For the slave trade? Well, there was a slave trade, but in terms of a power balance between Europeans and Africans, what was it? Who would be the most powerful at that point? The europeans. Well, that was. That was. That was the. The other answer. Well, remember when we talked about. Didn't have the natural resources, like the golden stuff, like in further kingdoms. I wasn't the one guy like, super H. Right. Before imperialism. I'm talking about the 16th century. This is the. Remember, we. I talked about at the very beginning of the course, we talked about west Africa. Right. Remember that? And what we said was that the west African kingdoms were very, very powerful, while European kingdoms were backward. Right. So that actually, that idea. I mean, when you talk about the slave trade. Yeah, there was a slave trade, but the slave trade was actually operated by Africans, not by Europeans. Right. The Africans would capture the slave and sell them to the Europeans on the coast. Right. And the Europeans basically. Let me show you. This is a better map here. Right. The Europeans were confined to the coast. Okay. And this goes all the way up to 1850. Right. And the Europeans were pretty much ignorant of what happened on the interior. Okay. So we look at this map, and keep in mind, this is actually a map of European colonialism. But why do you think all this other area here is white? I don't mean white in terms of race, but white mean in terms of not being occupied. The reason why is because Europeans had no idea what was in there. They were powerless to penetrate. First, because they didn't have power to confront African kingdoms. And secondly, because in certain parts of Africa, the tropical diseases kept Europeans from being able to survive, like malaria, for example. Right. And so Europeans really didn't have much of an idea of what was in Africa until after about 1850. Right. And then after about 1850, we see Europeans start to. To explore throughout Africa. So that was why we go back to the very beginning. The song that I wrote that I didn't write, I actually played the Dr. Livingston, I presume that was Europeans first contact with peoples in the interior of Africa. Right. They're just now mapping it out. And what we'll find out is that by the time we get to the late 19th century, as the Europeans discover more and more of what's in Africa, they. They decide to incorporate more and more of it into their empires for the reasons that we talked about. Okay, so. So what we'll see happening then is that the Europeans will find out what's in here. There will be medical advances that makes it possible for them to overcome malaria, things like that, tropical diseases. Right. And so the Europeans essentially move in. Okay, but before I move on, I want to show you this map. This map actually shows the different ethnic makeups of peoples throughout Africa. Okay. So when you think about this, when you look at this map, think back to when I talked about Europe in 1500. It looked pretty much the same. Right. And the reason why is because the continent is divided up into little tiny groups of people who are essentially independent from each other. Okay. And we want to keep this in mind because, well, you'll see why in a few minutes. But anyway, keep in mind the vast diversity of ethnic groups in Africa. Okay. Questions? Comments? All right, so now let's go ahead and talk about in. We're going to go back in European history to 1814. 1814 was the year that Napoleon was defeated at Waterloo. And the powers of Europe met at a meeting in Vienna. It's called Congress of Vienna. And I want you to remember that because we're going to talk about that when we get to World War I. Okay. The Congress of Vienna, what it did was it established a security system in Europe based on the idea of the balance of power. The idea of the balance of power is that instead of every country being by themselves, every country in Europe has allies. For example, Britain and France and Belgium were all allies, or more or less. Right. And Germany and. And Italy were allies in the Ottoman Empire. Right. And the idea behind all that was that. Or in Austria. Okay. And the idea behind all. All that was that because this balance of power was maintained, meaning that neither side had the power to overcome the other side, what that meant was that one country would no longer be able to threaten all of Europe like France had done. France had been able to take over almost all of Europe because there was no power in Europe that could withstand the French, except for the Russians eventually. So what would happen with a balance of power was if France, let's say, attacked Bavaria or Austria or some other country, then all of those other countries allies would come into play and France would not be able to defeat those other allies. And so the idea behind this balance of power is to maintain the peace because neither side can actually, neither side has the ability to overcome the other side, then they won't risk going to war. Okay, you guys follow what I'm saying here and it actually works, okay? The balance of power in Europe is going to be pretty much entrenched from 1814 to 1914. 1914 will be the beginning of World War I, or the Great War as they call it. And the result of that is that that allows Europeans who have spent centuries fighting against each other to expend to extend their power throughout the world. Okay, so, so it's not usually stated this way, but I think it's fair to say that the Congress of Vienna basically made it possible for Europe to conquer the world. Okay. Which basically if you look at Europe, if you look at the world by say 1900 any, every part of the world that was worth controlling was being controlled by Americans or Europeans essentially. Right? You guys are following me here or the Japanese. So, so this balance of power then is what really makes imperialism possible. Okay, questions? Comments about this? You guys, you guys follow that? All right, so now one of the other things about this, when the, when the Congress of Vienna met in 1814, there were two powers in it in Europe that didn't even exist at that time. And that was Germany and Italy. Germany and Italy were a bunch of little tiny states, just like we had seen at the end of the Middle ages, right? And very much like Africa was with all the different groups and things of the different duchies and whatever political states. And both of these countries by the, by the beginning of the night of the 20th century are going to become unified, okay? And that's going to be something that starts to upset the balance of power which will eventually lead to World War I. But what that means is that now we have two more imperial powers because Germany and Italy will both believe that they need to have empires in order to be first rate powers. Okay, so Germany, particularly Germany will become imperial, imperial power in Africa. And in the Pacific, Italy will be not as successful, but they will eventually control Libya and Ethiopia. All right, questions, Comments about this? Okay, so now what happens then in the late 19th century there, as I mentioned, when these powers are discovering what's in Africa and deciding they want actually creates some crises between the powers of Europe. Right. And the powers of Europe could see that if they didn't do something to control the process, that could lead to a war in Europe. And so what happens is that there is a conference in Berlin in, starts in 1884, ends in 1885. And the conference will be called the Berlin West Africa Conference, but it will be all of the European, actually seven European countries, the imperial countries, will sit down and decide who gets what in Africa. Okay. And what's interesting about this is that when these seven European powers decide who gets what in Africa, there are no Africans there. It's the Europeans, they decide who's going to get what in Africa. So it would be a lot like if, if, if I, me and, me and my son sat down one day and decided what we were going to take from Aaron's house without actually asking Aaron anything, just we decide who gets what. Right. And so now how do you think that Aaron would feel about that? I have a baseball bat. Let's let Aaron answer for himself. Yeah, well, you know, it goes back to that thing about who could beat up who and I'm sure I would lose. But the point though is that that's the same kind of an idea, right? Europeans didn't have any rights in Africa and yet they decided they were going to divide it up. Right. And so that's the result of the Berlin West Africa Conference is to scramble for Africa. And when you look at. Here's the best way I guess to show it is that between 1880 and 1913, by the beginning of World War I. Well, let's say it this way. In 1880, about 10% of Africa was controlled by Europeans. By 1913, 90% of Africa was controlled by Europeans. The only two areas in Africa that were independent were Ethiopia and Liberia and everything else was controlled by Europeans. So the blue is French, the pink is British, the Germans are green and the Portuguese are gray or whatever. I think it's the other way around. The Portuguese are green and the, the Germans are gray. But the point here is that it's all being controlled by Europeans. Okay. In a very short period of time, really, if you think about it, how, how. So that's why they call it the scramble for Africa. Questions? Comments about this now? I'm, I'm almost done. I want to just show you something. There's a little four minute video and if you want to, you can go in and look at it. It pretty much summarizes what I just talked about. So in case you're looking for, for a, if you looking for something for your final exam or something like that? You can find that information here. But this is a political map of Africa today. Okay. I don't know what all these. I don't know what all these pins are for, but this is what Africa looks like today. When we think about the map of Africa today, is it more like this or is it more like this? What do you guys think? It's more like the scrambled cultural one. Right. Now, what kind of. What does that tell us about the political map of Africa today? Cassandra. Cassandra Samaya. It tells us that Europe still has some type of control over Africa. Well, maybe, but I think you're on the right track. But when Africa becomes independent countries, how do they decide to divide themselves up? Or basically, the reality is they didn't decide to divide themselves up. Who divided them up was the Europeans. Right. So do you think that could cause a problem when you take a group of. A lot of different groups of people and put together. Put them together in one country? What do you guys think? Yes. Yeah. Especially. Have you heard of. Have you. When. Well, especially when you don't ask them. You don't talk to anybody. You're like, this makes sense to us. How about you? Right. Yeah. So here's the thing. So what we see happening then is that the Europeans basically divide up Africa, and then when Africa becomes independent countries, these countries are based on European borders that include people who are traditional enemies to each other, and it creates a lot of unrest. Okay. And we're looking at this now in Africa, but it's going to be the same in many other places in the world as well, particularly the Middle East. Right. So, for example. And again, we'll come back to this. Right? But for example, we look at a country like Iraq. Iraq never existed as a country before 1920. Okay. Iraq for the last thousand years had been ruled by the Ottoman Empire. And the Ottoman Empire was smart enough to divide it up into three different areas because it was occupied by three different groups of people who didn't like each other. Shiite Muslims, Sunni Muslims, and Kurds. Right. And what happened at the Treaty of Versailles was that Europeans sat down and said, okay, Iraq, that looks like a good country. You guys are a country now. Right? And what was the result of that? What happened? War. Sectarian violence and sectarian violence. And eventually it ends up with American intervention to support Iraqi nationalism. But we have to really understand that there was no Iraqi nation to support. It was a complete invention of the Europeans. And that's the same thing with all of these different countries in Africa as well. It's European inventions. Okay, questions, Comments about that. Okay, so now we're going to just keep our. Our minds on that for now, and then we'll talk more next week. We'll talk about India and we'll talk about American imperialism, and then we're going to move from there right into World War I. Okay, any questions or comments about anything? You know, what I get from what I get from when I'm asking questions of people like Cassandra who don't answer me is that tells me that people are logging in and then leaving or doing or not paying any attention at all. And what I would ask is that since I almost never call the role, if you're not going to pay attention, don't even bother to log in because I'm not going to know it. It's going to be up to you. And if you're not interested, you don't need to come. You don't need to come online. Okay, questions, Comments about this. It will reflect in your grade, though. So it's up to you guys. Okay, questions, Comments? All right. Live long and prosper. I'll see you Tuesday. Ciao, Professor. Have a good one. Have a good weekend. I'm dressed up as a fat old professor. I'm dressed up as a fat old professor. Put on your old blues and go out. You know, I wouldn't fit in them, actually. I don't have them anymore anyway, But I wouldn't fit in them. All right, you guys have a good one, huh? All right, Professor. Yeah, I still have the cap. You guys take care. Be good. Good feed you guys.