Sa Sa Sam. Sa Sam Sa Sam Sa Sat Sam who? Yeah. What is it good for? Absolutely Never say it again, y' all what? Look out. What is it good for? Absolutely Listen to me oh, wow. I despise Costing me destruction of this life Warm these tears to thousands of mother lies when their sons go up to fight and I said what? Good God, y' all what is it good for? Absolutely Let it say it again Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa what is it good for? Absolutely nothing Listen to me it ain't nothing but a heartbreak Send only to the Undertaker Is an enemy to all mankind the motherfuck blows around me what's caused and rest within the younger generation Induction then destruction who wants to die? Good Y what is it good for? You what is it good for? Absolutely nothing Listen to me it ain't nothing but a heartbreaker it's got one friend that's the Undertaker has shattered many young man's dreams Made him disabled better and me life is but precious he's been fighting wars each day War can't give life it can only take it away what is it good for? Absolutely say it again what is it good for? Absolutely Listen to me it ain't nothing but a heartbreaker Friend only to the Undertaker Peace, love and understanding Tell me is the got no place for them today they say we must fight to keep our freedom But Lord knows there's got to be a better way what is it good for? You tell him say it Sad save say it Good for what is good for? You guys like my song? I can't see you guys. Yes, yes. I like your song. I don't know why. Oh, there you are. You were hiding behind another screen. So how are you guys doing today? Do you know why I played that song today? Well, we're gonna talk about the war to end all wars, right? We're going to talk about war. So actually, that song was written about a different war, but they're pretty much all the same in some ways. So how's everybody doing? You guys are all right? You guys know that we're not having a class on Thursday, right? It would be worse. Okay, well, I'm gonna miss you guys, but not that much. I'm just kidding. All right, so I don't have any. Any announcements right now. We've got. The only thing we've got coming up is we've got to finish the. Sorry. We have to finish the exam, which will be due Thursday evening. I don't have any. Any. And I think there's a. There's a Discussion still going on. And then we won't be meeting Thursday, but then on Tuesday, we'll meet. We'll talk about the Russian revolution, and then we'll move forward from there. So, any questions or comments about anything I can help you with? Are you guys having a hard time? Are you guys actually. Do you think that you're actually learning anything in this class? I'm not saying that to belittle you, but I'm just wondering if this format is failing you. What do you guys think? I feel like I'm learning, but some things are hard to retain. Yeah. Well, you know, even in the best of classroom situations, they expect a 25% retention. So. So. So, you know, you're not going to ever retain probably everything. But I'm just wondering if. If you feel like this class is actually worthwhile taking it in this format. What do you guys. I feel like I'm learning something, but the format is certainly different. I. Comparing it to previous history classes I've had, I feel like it's. It's definitely a different way of learning, and it might work better for others than it does me. For me, I would say it's less effective, but I still feel like I'm getting value out of the class. Right. I think that the biggest problem with an online class is that you don't have the physical contact. I don't. I mean, physical presence in the classroom and because. And you're at home, which means that you've got many other things that could distract you, and so it makes it harder to actually pay attention. That's what I think, but that's one of the reasons why I'm trying to get this. Arrange it in such a way that you guys actually learn things, even though I know your attention is divided at best. Anyway, any questions or comments about that before we move on, though? You mentioned that the midterm was due this Thursday. I thought it was due today at midnight. No, it's. Is it today? Yeah, It's. Okay. I'm sorry. It's. It's today. I'm sorry. Okay. Darn. Just kidding. But. But, you know, I. It. It. It's. You guys had a week. Yeah. I think you did all right on it. I think I personally did all right on it. I don't know. Do you think it was helpful to do it in a group? No. No. You would rather do it individually? I mean, I'm kind of like that, too. All right, well, let's go ahead and move on then. I'm going to go ahead and show the video. You. I'm not the video. You guys can see my slide, right? The Great War, Part one. You guys see that? Okay, so I think that World War I is not as well known as its Successor, World War II, for a number of reasons, but in many ways I think it was much more destructive. And I do believe that the so called Great War or the War to end all wars is a monument to human stupidity. And hopefully by the time we're done today, I will have shown that. Because what I'm going to show you what we're going to do today, we're going to go through the first, probably the first three years of the war. Things don't really, things are going to be in stalemate, but a number of things will happen in 1917 that will change the situation in Europe. And among them is the Mexican Revolution. So no, I'm sorry, not the Mexican, the Russian Revolution. And so what we're going to do is we're going to do the first part of the war and then on Tuesday we'll do the Russian Revolution and then on Thursday we'll finish with the war and the Treaty of Versailles. Okay. Questions? Comments? Okay, well, you may or may not remember, hopefully you do remember when we were talking about the independence of Spanish America and the latter part of the 18th century, including the American Revolution, and we talked about the French Revolution, and then we talked about how the French Revolution essentially became the French Empire of Napoleon. And Napoleon set out to conquer all of Europe essentially. And he was eventually unsuccessful. And in 1814 he was defeated at Waterloo. And after that there was a, there was a, a congress, a meeting of the winning powers in Europe in Vienna, which is called the Congress of Vienna. And this congress was set to. What's the word I'm looking for? It was set to create a security system in Europe that would prevent things like killing your king and one country being able to take over all of the other countries. And so when this congress came together again, it was the ruling, it was the winning powers. And so the winning powers basically were able to dictate terms to the losers. And what that means is that it was essentially a return to pre Napoleonic Europe. Okay. Now that's, there were, there were a lot of fundamental changes which we didn't really get into. But the main thing to take away from that is politically it was about the same. All right. After, after the Napoleonic wars as before. Okay. And so that's kind of what we see here is the winners actually sitting down and dividing up Europe the way that they Want to. They're all speaking French. But they should be. They shouldn't be. Anyway, the point here is this is what the map of Europe will look like after, after the Congress of Vienna. So you can see the kingdom has been restored in France, the kingdom has been restored in Spain. These areas here where it says German kingdoms and Italian kingdoms are really a bunch of little tiny kingdoms, just like I showed you guys from 1500 about. And then we have what's called the Austrian Empire. Interestingly, the Austrian Empire is a multi ethnic empire. So it's got Austrians and it's got Hungarians. It's actually the Austro Hungarian Empire and it's got a number of different ethnicities living within it. Okay, but it has one king. It's actually interesting because it's two kingdoms with one king, Austria and Hungary. Right, but they both, they both have the same king. All right, but anyway, and then you can see the big powers here are going to be England and Prussia, Russia and Sweden and Norway. And then we still have the Ottoman Empire. Right? So this is going to basically create a situation that will maintain the peace in Europe. And the way that they do that is they create a security system based on balance of power. Okay? So you need to remember that balance of power, right? Balance of power means that there are going to be two different powers in Europe. Okay? Not a bunch of different powers, but two. Okay. And the two powers are going to be systems of alliances. All right, so then, so the way that it works is going to be that each of the countries of Europe is in an alliance with other countries of Europe. And there's two different countries of Europe, two different, excuse me, two different alliances in Europe. And the power of each is relatively equal. And the idea behind it is that if we have two relatively equal power systems or power structures in Europe, that no one country will be willing or will take the chance of starting a war with another country. Because what would happen then would be that all of that other country's allies would come into effect and they would lose. Right. So the idea here is that if you make both sides so powerful that they can't that and antagonists can't win, that will prevent them from being antagonists. And this actually really works. Okay, so from 1814 to 1914, there really aren't any major wars in Europe. There are some. And we'll talk a little bit about that in a minute. But the main thing is that because the Europeans are no longer wasting their effort fighting against each other, they can use that, that time and the power they've gained from industrialization to expand into the rest of the world. So that's going to be really what drives imperialism in the 19th century. Okay, any questions or comments so far? You guys are following me here. All right, so if the Congress of Vienna didn't exist, would. Would the Europeans not have, like, tried to colonize the rest of the world? Would you think that or no? Well, you know, the first thing I would have to say about that question is that we as historians can't really speculate on what might have happened. We can only talk about what did happen. So, you know, it's kind of like saying, well, what would have happened if the south won the Civil War? Well, who knows? Because it didn't. Right. But the second answer to that is that that it was because of the peace in Europe that the Europeans were able to project their power around the world. I think that it was essential that the Congress of Vienna created that peace. And so you could say that it was because of that piece that the Europeans were free to colonize in the 19th century. What would have happened if they hadn't been a Congress of Vienna? It's impossible to know. But the Europeans were bent on colonization anyway. So if it hadn't been the Congress of Vienna, it would have been probably some other thing, because the Europeans were very careful for most of the time to try not to go to war with each other. And we looked at that when we saw the scramble for Africa, how the Europeans were. Were having confrontations in Africa, and they sat down at the Congress of Berlin, the Berlin conference, and decided how to divide it up so they wouldn't have to fight over it. Does that answer your question? It's not possible to answer yes or no, unfortunately. Yeah. Okay, good. All right. So anyway, so. So the Congress. I'm sorry. So the Congress of Vienna keeps the peace. That's basically what we've talked about here. Okay. So now another thing that's just becoming a major. Starting to play a major role in international relations and in history at this point is nationalism. Remember, we talked briefly about nationalism on another day, and in that day, in that talk, we said that nationalism will come to replace, in many ways, religion as our basis of identity. So if we remember that during the Middle Ages, Europeans knew that they lived in different places and they would identify with those places, but they all identified as Christians. So, for example, when the Spanish went to the New World, for them, it was Christians and not Christians. And when they talked about, they knew they were from Spain, but instead of calling themselves Spanish, they called themselves Christians. But one of the results of the Reformation that we talked about was that there will be a rise in the power of nation states and also in national identity, and that national identity will become based on language. And remember, we talked about the reason for that was because of the translation of the Bible into the vernacular. So everybody has to speak the same language. Pretty soon we all of a sudden have something in common with everybody else in a large area. Right? So all the people in France all speak French, so they can call themselves French. And all the people in English now speak English so they can call themselves English. And the same is going to be true in Italy. Excuse me, Italy and Germany. And so what happens is that this nationalist impulse will cause. They will basically cause the creation of two new major kind of relatively powers in Europe, and that's going to be Germany and Italy. So remember, at the end of. At the end of Napoleonic era, Germany and Italy were a bunch of little tiny states during the middle of the 19th century and the later part of the 19th century. For Italy, the Germans are going to try to, or actually really succeed in creating a German empire out of all these other other little principalities and kingdoms. And it's going to be led by the Prussian, the Kingdom of Prussia. So the king of Prussia then becomes the emperor of Germany. Same thing happens in Italy. But once they become nations, then they become. They become driven by the idea of being great powers, like the other powers of Europe. So both Germany and Italy then will be looking for ways kind of to catch up with Britain and France and. And even Russia to a certain extent. And that's going to lead to some real aggressive foreign policy on the part of both Germany and Italy. Okay. And so that will actually then exacerbate the problems, the kind of conflicts or the potential conflicts between the various powers of Europe. Okay, does that make sense to you guys? So this is going up to 1914. We're not there yet. Okay, you guys are all there, right? Okay. Next thing, the Ottoman Empire is falling apart. If you remember, we looked at that last map, and the Ottoman Empire was all the way up here. But what has happened is that nationalism has driven different groups of people in southeastern Europe, which we call the Balkans, to create new nations like Romania and Bulgaria, Serbia, Greece. And these new nations are, like I said, driven by the binationalism, but they're going to be weaker than other states. And so one of the things that happens is that as the Ottoman Empire falls apart, the other powers of Europe are going to keep their eye on or to have their eye on the areas that the Ottoman Empire controls with the idea of taking it over. So in some ways, if you could think about the Ottoman Emperor, they call it the sick man of Europe. And the sick man of Europe is dying and the other powers are kind of circling like vultures, waiting for the, for the, for the victim to die so that they can pick up the what's left over. Right. And we'll actually see that happen after World War I. We won't see it today, but we'll see it after World War I. So basically then that is going to be where we're going to find the flashpoint, because these various kingdoms or countries that are being created in the Balkans are going to be aligned either with Austria, the Ottoman Empire or Russia. Okay. And so we're going to see how that works out here in just a couple minutes. Okay. Questions, Comments? One last thing I want to mention before we move on is remember I told you that the Austro Hungarian Empire was a multi ethnic empire, which means that when Serbia became a country there were many ethnic Serbians who still lived within the Austrian Empire. Same with Romanians and Montenegrins and whoever. Right. The idea though here is that, is that the Austro Hungarian Empire actually contains members of what these people consider to be members of their nation. It's the same thing that the Germans are going to say about Czechoslovakia and Austria. Right? These are actually German people, they should be part of the German Reich. Here people are saying, well, these are actually Serbians, they should be part of Serbia. Right. Rather than being ruled by this foreign power of the Austro Hungarian Empire. You guys follow me here. Questions, comments? And so there's going to be activists in these countries who are agitating, trying to find a way to break, for these people to break away from the Austro Hungarian Empire and join the new country, Serbia. And one of the ways that they're going to use is going to be terrorism. So we'll talk about that in a second. Questions? Comments about this? Okay, moving on then. We kind of already started talking about that. What we end up with on the eve of war in 1914 is two systems of alliances. And the systems of alliances are going to be, well, let me take a step back, I forgot to mention this, but we do need to talk about it. In 1870, Germany went to war with France. It was called the Franco Prussian War. And the Germans defeated France soundly. And what happened was that Germany actually annexed two of France's provinces, Alsace and Lorraine. And the French, they couldn't do anything about it. But One thing that they did do was they built a big line here, a big defensive line called the Maginot Line that would keep the Germans from actually attacking France. Okay? So the first election that we're going to talk about is going to be the alliance between France and Russia. Okay? Now we'll talk about why Russia was involved with France in a minute. But the main thing is that if, if France and Russia are allied and Germany goes to war against France, then they have to fight a two front war. And military people don't like that idea. They'd like to be able to fight only in one place. So the purpose of the Franco Russian alliance was to prevent Germany from attacking either France or Russia. You guys got that? Questions? All right, the next thing then is the Austrians have a lot of interest in the Balkans, and Russia also has a lot of interest in the Balkans. Because one of the major disadvantages of the Russian Empire is that the only warm water ports it has are on the Black Sea. And you can't use those ports without going through this waterway called the Bosporus and the Dardanelles, which was controlled by the Ottoman Empire. All right? And so they had, as they see the Ottoman Empire as a sick man of Europe, they are very interested in somehow gaining control of this territory so that they could free up their warm water ports. Okay? And so one of the ways that they do that is that they say, okay, well, all these people that live in southern southeastern Europe are Slavic peoples and we're a Slavic people, which really wasn't true. They weren't Slavic, but nevertheless they called themselves Slavic. And that meant that they were naturally allied with certain countries in the Balkans, particularly with Serbia. We want to keep our minds on that one. The Russians and the Austro Hungarians are in our rivals over southeastern Europe. And so the Austrians are allied with Germany so that if Russia ends up attacking them, then they will also have to fight against Germany. Okay? So the German Austrian alliance is basically aimed at, at Russia, okay? And then the Italians end up joining this, these, this alliance with Germany and Austria, Hungary, okay? Because they have, well, they have some territorial interest in southeastern Europe and they have some territorial interest in France. Okay? And so Italy actually is part of what they call the Central Powers. Okay. The reality, though is that Italy will not really enter the war on the side of the Central Powers. And right after the war begins, they'll switch sides to the Allies. All right? So anyway, so then going back and we have the Franco Russian alliance and then we have the Central Powers. We've talked about that. What about Britain? Because you guys all knew that Britain was part of the. Of the alliance system on the side of France and Russia, okay? But it really wasn't. What, what. What involvement that Britain had or the United Kingdom had was that there was a little country here, Belgium, who had declared that it was neutral. And the problem with Belgium being neutral is that because of the Maginot line that the French had built, Germany could not easily invade France directly, but they could pretty easily invade Belgium directly because it's flat country and you can just move right through it. And so there was a real threat to Belgium from Germany if the Germans went to war with France. And so Britain guaranteed Belgium's neutrality, so it wasn't really allied with France and Russia. If Germany declared war on France and didn't invade Belgium, Britain would have stayed out of the war. Okay? But they did. What they did was they actually attacked France through Belgium, and that's what drew Britain into the war. All right, so now we have the Central Powers, and then these other three countries together we're going to call the Triple Entente, Right? Triple Entente. Entente is French for understanding. So it's an understanding. It's an understanding that the French and the Russians are allied with each other. The British are not really, but they will come into the war to defend Belgium's neutrality. Okay, you guys are all with me. Questions, comments? Got all that? All right. Okay. So now one. One thing that I want you guys to notice here, and it's not going to really come into play today, but it will when we come back next week, and that is, what kinds of governments do these countries have we look at? Okay, well, Germany's an empire, and Austria, Hungary is an empire, and Italy is a kingdom, wants to be an empire. Turkey is an empire, Russia is an empire. It is probably the most backward, anachronistic monarchy in Europe at this time. Essentially still in the Middle Ages, right. Even though it's starting to industrialize and things like that. Okay? And then over here we have Britain and France. Britain is a constitutional republic, and France is a republic, a democracy. So we have democracies here, and everybody else is monarchies. Right? Okay, I want you to keep that in mind, because when the United States starts to think about getting involved, the President of the United States, Woodrow Wilson, is going to be interested in supporting democracy, but not in supporting monarchy. So just keep that in mind. Okay. Questions? Comments about all this. All right, so let's go back. All right, so then there's one other thing that is going to feed into kind of the. The. The unintended consequence of the destruction and brutality of World War I. And that is mechanization. Okay? One thing that happens over the latter part of the 19th century is that all of the major powers are going to mechanize their military, right? Mechanizing means that they're going to have plans to send troops to the front. And those plans are going to be depending on timelines, right? And so, for example, when we actually see the beginning of the war, Germany sets in motion a plan called the Schlieffen plan. Right? The Schlieffen plan was to invade France through Belgium, take Paris within 30 days, and then move their armies to the east. Okay? And that plan was incredibly complex because they had to get troops from all over Germany and get them all pointed in the right direction to get them delivered to the right place at the right time. So you can see here. Here's German troops getting on train to go to the front, right? And here's another picture of German troops on the train going to the front, okay? But here is a picture of the railroad network in Germany, right? So now you can imagine how complex and how precise these plans have to be to keep these trains from running into each other, right? With the idea that everything's going to come into. Into play at once and. And end up in the right place. Right? You see what I'm saying? And. And so the way that. The way that the plans actually end up working is that once you start them, it's pretty. It's almost impossible to stop them. And the reason why is because if you stop, then it would take weeks to reset. Okay? And. And the result of that would mean then that whoever stopped their advance, or mobilization, as they call it, would be at a disadvantage if their opponents didn't stop. You follow what I'm saying? So. So once the. It's kind of like once the trigger is pulled, you can't stop the bullet. You can't call it back, Right? It's. It's good. It has to go. All right? So just keep that in mind as well. All right? Questions? Comments about any of this? Okay. Now I think we're done here. Now. This is kind of. It's actually. It's funny, but it's. It's. It's tragic, but it's kind of funny too, right? Because here's what happens in. In. I think it was July.July of 1914, June or July, the Archduke Franz Ferdinand is assassinated in Belgrade, Serbia. Okay. Or. No, I'm sorry, it was Sarajevo Sarajevo. And so who was this guy? Well, he was the heir to the Austro Hungarian Empire. And there, there was. The Austrians had their eye on this area. And then there was a. If I think about it now correctly, Sarajevo was in the Austro Hungarian Empire. And there was a group, I think it was called the Black Hand, believe it or not, in Serbia, who were agitating for war, trying to get Austro Hungaria to go to war, because the war then they thought would break up the empire and they'd be able to expand the Serbian influence. Okay? And so there was a man named Gavrilo Princip who was a member of the Black Hand, and his job was to assassinate the Archduke with the idea behind it that that would start a war. Which was true, it did. And it's very kind of. It's a strange story because he basically missed his chance. And then later, by luck, the driver of the. Of the Archduke's carriage turned down the wrong street and it just happened to be where the assassin was and he killed him. Right? So. So that's going to. Then the result of that is going to be outrage, obviously, because people in Austria, Hungary now are going to say, well, look at these. Look what these Serbians did to us. And there's going to be a kind of a war fever, right? And then behind that war fever is Austria's strategic interest in taking over Serbia. And so what Austria does is it makes an ultimatum to Serbia, basically saying that Serbia has to surrender its sovereignty to Austria Hungary, particularly in the case of this assassin, or else Austria Hungary will attack. Okay? But before they do that, they ask the German Kaiser who is their ally, if Austria Hungary attacks Serbia. And as a result of Austria Hungary attacking Serbia, Russia attacks Austria Hungary, if Germany would be in the war. And the Kaiser says, absolutely, we're on your side. So it's called the blank check, right? To do whatever you want. So the Austrians then invade Serbia, but they get bogged down right away and they start losing. They're basically losing the war right from the very beginning. All right? And so essentially, after about 30 days, the Austrians kind of relent and they say, okay, well, we're going to do it a different way. All right? And so the. The threat of war at that point should have passed. All right? But in the meantime, the Russians have started to mobilize, right? Russia starts to mobilize. And Russia's plan for mobilizing is to send troops to Germany, okay? So the Germans, then they try to prevent the Russians from mobilizing, but the French actually convince or actually The French ambassador convinces the Russians, the Russian czar, to mobilize. And so when the Russians start to mobilize, Germany mobilizes. Right. Are you guys following me here? So, but the problem, of course, is that Germany's plan involves invading France. So, so basically what happens is Austria attacks Serbia, so Russia attacks Germany, so Germany attacks Belgium. Right. And. And that's. And then the thing is, is that once the. The Kaiser had given the Emperor of Austria the go ahead, the blank check, he went on vacation. And when he came back, he saw that there was no reason actually for there to be a war anymore. But by now it was too late because mobilization had already begun. And like I said before, once mobilization starts, you can't stop. Just goes on. So next we have. Then the Germans put into play their plan called the Schlieffen plan, which comes from the 19th century. Anyway, it was made by a general named Schlieffen. And their idea here is to attack through Belgium, take Paris within 30 days, and then move all their troops to the eastern front. Okay? And they were very. They met quite a bit of resistance from the Belgians. They didn't expect that much resistance from the Belgians, but at the same time, they didn't expect the British to actually honor their commitment to Belgium. Right. And the British were actually kind of reluctant to do it. Okay. So the British, once Germany had invaded Belgium and basically occupied Belgium. I'm going the wrong way. Basically, occupied Belgium. The British landed an army in France, but not anywhere near where the fighting was. Right. And the general of the British Expeditionary Force, who ironically was named French, actually was very reluctant to commit his troops. Okay. And so the Germans then were able to take Belgium and march on Paris. And they came to within where the people of Paris could actually hear their cannons. Okay? Keep in mind that their cannons were enormous. They were like launching Volkswagens. Right? Not Volkswagens, but some things the size of Volkswagens. Right. So the government of Paris, the government in Paris decided to declare Paris a free city, which meant that they were no longer going to defend it. But. And the reason for that was they wanted to prevent the Germans from actually destroying Paris. So the government has declared a free city and left. And the general of the French, the marshal of the French armies goes to see General French, or actually Marshal French, and he says, monsieur Le Marechal, the honor of Britain is at stake. And so French throws his army. His army into the battle, and they stop the advance, okay? And. And when they stop the advance, that stops the. That disrupts the Schlieffen. Plan. So, so let me just go back here. If you look. I'm sorry. If you look at this map, the way that this is described is as a revolving door, right? The idea is like the. The Germans are going to go through the. In, in, through and then out the door and go to the Russians. But the door, once the British actually enter the war, enter the battle, the door is stuck, the door is jammed, and that stops the British, the German advance. And then what happens is that the Germans will retreat to this, basically this line. And this line that you see on this map where there's the blue and the red is going to be the focus of the war essentially for the next four years, okay? And. Because what happens is they dig themselves into trenches and then they try to dis both sides, try to dislodge the other side. Okay, Any questions or comments about all this? Okay, so actually we're getting close to none. So I already told you the revolving door jams in the West. What happens in the west is going to be that it kind of works like this, okay? So in the spring of 1915, the summer of 1915, essentially, the Germans will have a big, huge military buildup with the idea of breaking through the French and British lines. And there'll be an enormous offensive all along this line, but it will fail because they can't break through the defense, right? And then the following year, the British and the French tried the same thing, essentially with the same result, right? So. So it's like there's offensive of one side against the other one year, and then the next year it's an offensive of one side against the other again. But neither one of them is going to be successful. And, and what's really interesting, not interesting, it's really tragic really, because what will happen will be that both sides are using massive artillery. So they basically just. They fire tons of artillery at other armies such that the land is completely destroyed and whoever's on the land is just lost forever. Okay? And it's really. I'll show you this next time we talk about this. But there are areas along this line that Even today, over 100 years after the end of the war, are off limits because of the destruction that was caused by World War I. It's called the Zone Rouge. That's how. That's how destructive it was. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments? All right, so. So that's what's going to happen in the West. And that will happen Basically from 1915, 1914, 1915 up until 1917. And in 1917, actually, really 19, 18. Things will start to change. Okay. Questions? Comments? Oh, I should mention that during those three or four years, 10 million people. 10 million people are dead. Now, that doesn't seem like a lot, now that we think about it, because of the number of people that have been killed since then. Like, if you think, for example, about. Isn't it something like 700,000? Oh, yeah, 700,000. So. So like 10 million. 10 million young men and other people are going to be killed in this four years. Right. Questions? Comments about this. That's how destructive it is. Okay. And it will have a major impact. All right. Now, what's going on in the east is that the beginning, the Russians had some success because they kind of caught the Germans off guard. But the Germans are going to be able to regroup relatively quickly and stabilize their line in the west. And the line in the west is going to stay relatively constant, except for in Austria, Hungary. The Russians are going to continue to have success against Austria, Hungary, but the war in the west is not going to be anywhere near as horrific as what we see as. Kiwi. Yeah, the East, I'm sorry, it's not going to be anywhere near as horrific as we saw in the west. All right, we'll talk more about what happens in the east closer to the end of the war. All right. Questions? Comments about this. All right, I should mention that here, this is. It's kind of a good map. It kind of shows us where the fighting is in 1916, 1917. This is where the line in the east is. This is where the line in the west is. Right. And there's another line here that the Italians are fighting against the Austrians. And they basically fought the same battle 11 times during the war and lost every time. Right. So they never got the territory that they were hoping for in southern Austria. I think they did get it when they. In the treaty conference. But any rate, let's talk a little bit about trench warfare, because, I mean, here's a picture, and you can kind of see how, I mean, everybody's in water, right? Because this is a temperate zone where there's rain and things. In wintertime, it's snow and ice, right? But what happens is that people spend months in water, right. With their feet in water, right. And so it results in all kinds of different, you know, maladies, diseases, injuries, and. And then on top of that, there's dead people all along here. Right. And they can't get rid of them, really. And so there's rats all over the place. Right. And this is the way they have to live in these trenches, Right. And they live that way for months on end. What I've done is I have actually put a little video here from a British veteran of World War I who talks about what it was like to live in the. In the, in the trenches. It's only about four or five minutes long. I'm not going to go ahead and play it now, but I want you to know it's there if you want to go and look at it, to get a good picture of. Of what it was like to be in a trench. Right. Questions? Comments? Okay, so now what we really have, by the time we get to really in 1915 and on, we have a stalemate between the two different alliance systems. Remember that the alliance systems were there to maintain a balance of power. And once they had all gone to war, did that prove that the strategy of balance of power was correct? The purpose of it was so no one could win? Right. So I guess it was correct. It was correct that they were right that the balance of power was such that neither side could actually win. And I want you to know that the countries that were involved in this, the French, particularly the French and the British and the Germans are going to spend. They're going to actually run out of money after about a year. And they continue to fight the war anyway, which means that they're fighting. They're basically destroying their own resources in order to keep this fight going. Right. They won't come out of the war broke. They'll come out of the war worse than broke. You guys follow me here. And in fact, what we're going to see happening is that the French and the English are going to be heavily in debt to the Americans. All right, we'll talk more about that later. Okay. Anyway, so. So now what are we going to do? We're stuck in this, in this, this stalemate and we can't win militarily. So what are we going to do? What we'll do is we're going to do a couple of things. So the first one is that the Ottomans, well, both sides are going to gain new allies. So the Ottomans actually entered the war on the side of Germany in order to be able to defend the Balkans against the Russians. And the Japanese entered the war on the side of the Allies, mainly because they want to take over Germany colonies in the Pacific. Right. But they joined the Allies anyway. So now we have both sides actually have new allies. And then the other thing is that both sides were going to try to cripple the other Side economically. Right. So what happens is that the British are going to blockade Germany and pretty much say that nobody can trade with Germany. And in response, the Germans are going to use a new weapon that they have called the U boat. And they're going to say that they're going to define this area, this dark blue area around Britain as an exclusion zone, saying that any ship that enters into this zone is subject to being sunk without notice from the U boat. Okay. From. From German U boats. Okay. And this is published in the newspapers in different. Different countries, including the United States. Right. That any ship that enters this area is subject to being sunk without warning. All right. Well, now, that's actually one of the kind of crazy things about Europeans, particularly the British, is that they have this idea of civilized warfare. The idea behind civilized warfare is there's rules and that both sides should agree to follow these rules. Both sides, they may actually start off that way. They don't ever end up that way. So like, we could talk about just briefly, we could say at the beginning of World War II, the British said that they would only fight against military targets. By the end of World War II, they were destroying whole cities in Germany. Bombing whole cities. Right. Okay. So the idea is you can start off with this idea that you're going to have a civilized war. It never ends up that way, though, because your life is at stake, or at least that's what you think. Right. So anyway, what happens is that the British say that, okay, we're going to. We're going to that, or I should say it the other way. The Germans are going to say we're going to sink merchant vessels without warning. The reason why that's such a problem is that the rules of warfare said that if you were going to approach a merchant vessel that might be carrying goods for an enemy, you had to first fire a shot across their bow and warn them to surrender. And if they surrendered, then you accepted your surrender. Right. You wouldn't just. You wouldn't just. You wouldn't just destroy them without notice. The problem with that is that that would be perilous for a submarine. You guys understand why. Why would the submarine not want to warn a merchant vessel? Because they would have to surface and show themselves, and then they're at risk when they're on, when they've surfaced. Right? Because they're very weak. Submarines main strategic value or tactical value is in their secrecy. But when you, you Even a merchant vessel would have enough arms to be able to cripple or destroy a submarine. Right. So submarines can't show themselves. But the interesting part of it then is that when the Germans start to sink vessels in this area without warning, the British are going to make a kind of propaganda value out of that, particularly in the United States, because they're going to say, look, these Germans are like a bunch of barbarians. They don't even follow the rules. Right. And one of the things that we'll see happening. We'll talk more about this next Thursday, I think. But one of the things that we'll see happening is that public opinion in the United States is going to go from essentially neutral to become more and more British or more and more pro British as time goes by. And it's going to be particularly because of the British propaganda program in the United States that is convincing Americans that the Germans are a bunch of beasts. Right? Okay. So we'll leave it at that. But at any rate, what happens is in 1915, Germany will sink this ship, the British ship Lusitania. The reason why it's an important issue is because the Lusitania is carrying a number of Americans, a large number of Americans. Right. And it's also, by the way, including arms coming from the United States to Britain. Okay. Which is often left out of the story. But nevertheless, this is going to shock the Americans. Americans are going to really come to the brink of war with the Germans. Okay? The big problem, as I mentioned you guys, with Americans going to war with the Germans at this point is going to be that Woodrow Wilson is not. He's in favor of the British, but he's opposed to the Russians. Why do you think that he's in favor of the British and even the French, but opposed to the Russians. I've already told you this. What do Britain and France have in common that's different from Russia at this time? They are republics, democratic republics. Right, Democratic republics. And Wilson thought that his role, the United States role in world. In foreign policy should be to support democracy and not monarchy. So Wilson was reluctant to get the United States involved in a war that would end up supporting a monarchy. And what ends up happening then is that rather than declaring war, he issues a statement which called for strict accountability. I think I put that here, right? Yeah. Strict accountability. And what that meant was that the United States would hold the Germans to strict accountability if they continued to destroy American lives and property on the high seas. Okay, here's. Here's kind of a cartoon from that period of time where the Americans are basically taking this moral stand against the Germans. Right? The Germans are going to back off and the reason why is going to be not because the Germans are particularly afraid of the United States. Because even though the United States by now had really become a first rate world power, most people didn't know it or believe it. Right? America was just far away country, a bunch of cowboys essentially. Right? They're not even up to the same standard as us Europeans. I mean, Europeans have always thought that way about Americans. But anyway, the point here is that the Germans were not necessarily afraid of the United States, but they were afraid of this balance of power. They were afraid that the power was balanced in such a way that if the United States did enter the war, that would tip the war, tip the scales in favor of the French and the British. And so they backed off and they said, we're not going to do unrestricted submarine warfare anymore. And that kept the United States out of the war. All right, so from 1915 to 1918, the United States will be officially neutral. Okay, you guys are with me. Questions, Comments? This is actually after the, after the war starts, but this is going to be a propaganda poster of only American Navy can stop this bloodshed by the dastardly Germans. Right? Okay. Questions? Comments? You guys get what I had said, right? We're basically, we have started the war. The war has become a stalemate. Neither side can actually gain an advantage over the other. And now both sides are jockeying for position in trying to prevent the other side from trading so that, that will weaken their economy. Right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments about this. All right, and that's where we're going to leave it right now, because that's where we get by the time we're now at about 1917. And then as I mentioned, in 1917, there's going to be a few things that happen that are going to change the situation in Europe and, and it's going to start with revolution in Russia. All right, so that's what we're going to talk about on Tuesday. But on Thursday you guys are going to be drinking and having hot dogs and stuff to celebrate America's veterans. By the way, do you know what date the Veterans Day is? What's the date? The 11th, the 11th. Why do you think it's the 11th? Because on the 11th day of the World War I ended. Yeah, the 11th. 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month in 1918, World War I ended. So we really are kind of chronologically right on the, the topic of World War I as we go into celebrating Veterans Day. All right, so you guys go and celebrate Veterans Day. And come back on Tuesday. And that's it. Live long and prosper. Unless you're active, in which case, get to work. Yeah, exactly. Well, let me just say if I don't know how many of you guys are veterans, but if you are veterans, I really appreciate the fact that you stepped up for this country. I appreciate that you stepped up for this country. Okay. Most people don't. I do. Have a good Veterans Day, Professor. Thank you, Professor. Oh, you, too. I'm gonna do the same thing I do every day, which is sit in front of the computer on my fat ass, but. All right. You got a good.