Professor, are you there? I am here. What can I help you with? I have a question. One of my group mates told us everything was due for the project next week. Right. So I'm asking if the essay is due Today and the PowerPoint due next week or is it just everything due next week? Everything is due next Tuesday at 12:45. Because it still says on canvas that it's due today. I know, I actually forgot to tell you guys that. But it's not due until next Tuesday because I pushed everything back. Remember? I. We did the. The consultations on Tuesday, so. So we're doing the Cold War today. So we're going to do the presentations next week. All right. Yeah, thank you. Sorry, we got confused and we got scrambled. Yeah, well, let me just go ahead and make sure. If I don't mention it at the beginning of class, ask me again so I can make sure everybody knows. Okay? Okay. Thank you. You. There's a growing feeling of hysteria condition to respond to all the threats and the rhetorical speeches of the Soviet Mr. Khaf said, we will bury you. I don't subscribe to this point of view. You'll be such an ignorant thing to do. If the Russians love their children too. How can I save my little boy from Oppenheimer's deadly toy? There is no monopoly of common sense on either side of the political fronts. We share the same biology regardless of ideology. Leave me when I say it to you. I hope the Russians love their children too. There is no historical precedent to put the words in the mouth of the President. There's no such thing as a winnable war. It's a lie we don't believe anymore. Mr. Reagan says we will protect you. I don't subscribe to this point. I feel. Believe me when I said to you I hope the Russians love their children too. Power what might save us, me and you. If the Russians love their children. Sam. Did you guys like my song? Yes. Do you know why I played that song today? Anybody want to guess? Well, of course. It's about the Cold War and the nuclear threat War and all that. Yeah, exactly. We're gonna study. So what? 45 to 89. 40. Almost 45 years. History in the next hour, so buckle yourself in. How's everybody doing? Any questions about anything? Everybody's good. Let me just mention a couple of different things. Let me show you. Going to go to the canvas page and you guys have all disappeared. Where are you? There it is. Okay. I actually think Windows sucks. In some cases it just makes it hard to work Anyway, so I know you guys want to hear me whine. So, anyway, all right, so to. I actually, I don't even know why I wanted to show you this, to be honest with you, because what we're going to do, what I've decided to do. Let me just make sure everybody knows that the projects, everything in the project is due at 12:45 on next Tuesday because we're going to start doing presentations. We're going to do two presentations a day, and the order of the presentations is going to be at random. I'm going to draw, I'm going to roll a dice and electronic dice, actually, and then that's how we'll determine the order of presentation. And that makes it, I think, fair so that nobody gets an extra two days to work on their project. Right. But anyway, so the next thing is, everybody's going to be expected to be here for the two days that we're presenting. I'm going to actually call the role. And there will be a, A penalty if you're not here, because you need to be here to support your colleagues. If, if you've already presented and you think, well, I'm done now, that's not going to be helpful to your colleagues who need to engage in a discussion. So everybody needs to be here for both sessions, even if you've already gone, even if you're. If you're. Even if you've already presented. So just kind of keep that in mind. Any questions or comments about that. Okay, so the next thing is the final exam. I've decided that the way we're going to do it this time is that everybody will have to do their own final exam. And what will happen is that I will make the exam available after class on Tuesday. The reason why I'm going to wait until then is because I want you guys to focus on your projects until Tuesday. And then the exam will be due at midnight on Saturday. And that's the end of the semester. Right. So you'll have until Tuesday after. You'll have from Tuesday afternoon until midnight Saturday to do the. The final exam. All right, you guys are with me. It's going to be the same format, but obviously you're going to have to pick out 10 questions and answer them on your. And keep in mind that what I'm looking for in these exams is not. Is not the answers that you found on YouTube or on Wikipedia, but the answers that I gave you in class. And I will be again, making these videos available to you guys so you can go over them if you need to. All right. Questions. Comments about that. All right, so then that's going to be it. So the we're going to be done today. I'm going to do a lecture on the Cold War, and then at the end of that, we'll be doing presentations, and that'll be the end of the class. And I know that it's going to make me sad, and I know it'll make you guys sad, too, but it's just. That's the way it goes. Things have to come to an end. Right. So questions, Comments about anything before I get started. All right, so let me go ahead then, and do the slide. Do you see the slide now where it says the Cold War era? You don't see it? No, no, no. All right, now do you see it? Yeah. All right. So last thing we talked about was the end of World War II. At the end of World War II, basically, Europe was in shambles and Asia was in shambles. And it, before even the dust settled, there came to the forefront a new. A new kind of challenge. Actually, two new challenges that came at the same time. And you need to pay attention to this, because without understanding what I'm getting ready to tell you, you won't be able to understand the Cold War at all. Okay. And you may think, well, I don't need to know about the Cold War, but it's very important to know about the Cold War, to know where we are now. Anyway, so there's two different things that were happening from the time. Actually, they both started before World War II, but they came to the forefront after World War II. And the two things were the rivalry between the United States, I should say it this way, between the Western capitalist countries and the Soviet Union for the most part, but also China. We have two different incompatible ideologies competing for world domination. All right? And that's what we call the Cold War, really. And then the other thing that was happening was decolonization. All right? So in the years 1945 to 1965, most of the countries that had been under European influence, under European colonization, became independent during that period of time, but not always peacefully and easily. And then at the same time, from 1945 until really almost 1990, we see this international ideological rivalry between the east and the west that we call the Cold War. And what's going to end up happening is that those two processes are going to be there, be mistaken for each other, particularly the United States and the Western allies will confuse decolonization with the Cold War. And that's going to lead to untold tragedy. All right. As we'll discuss here today, I guess we're going to leave it there for now, and then we'll kind of get into how that all plays out. Any questions, Comments about any of this? But keep in mind, we're doing two things. We're doing the Cold War and decolonization. All right, so now let's think about what were the roots of the Cold War. And we really start to think about the Cold War beginning in July of 1945, which was when there was a meeting in Berlin at a place called Potsdam, which is the palace of Kaiser Wilhelm. And at that conference, we had the Big four, which were the United States, Great Britain, France, and the Soviet Union. And all four of those had been allies against Hitler, against Hitler's Germany. But at the conference, the Soviet Union ends its cooperation with the west and begins to pursue its own policies. That's going to be that break between the Western Allies and the Soviet Union will be the beginning of what we call the Cold War. But what causes that break? Why is that break there? And the answer, the main answer to that is because the Soviet Union was the kind of beacon and fountainhead of worldwide communism. They believed in communism and they thought that communism should be everywhere. If you guys will recall when we talked about Marxism, Marxism doesn't work anywhere unless it's everywhere. Right. So Marxism and capitalism are incompatible with each other in the world. Okay? So the idea then, and you guys will recall going all the way back to the Soviet Union when it was first founded and they formed the Common Turn. Do you guys remember the Common Turn? What is the Common Turn? It's like communism. Like international. Communist. International. Exactly. And what was the purpose of the Comintern? To spread communism around the world. Exactly. And keep in mind then, that Comintern was formed in 1924, which means that from 1924 on, the stated foreign policy of the Soviet Union was to destroy the economic system in the west, was to destroy the economic system in the United States and Britain and anywhere where capitalism existed. That's really the beginning of the Cold War, even though it doesn't come to the forefront until after World War II because of all the things that intervene. Right? So at any rate, the point here is that after World War II, the Soviets went about the business of again, trying to export communism everywhere. And the main place where they were focusing after World War II was in those countries that were becoming decolonized. All right? The reason why is because those countries that were decolonized were when they were decolonized, they were poor and they were underdeveloped. And that makes that fits into Marxist ideology by making them the proletariat. Right. So from the point of view of. Of the Soviets than the poor people in South Asia and Africa and Latin America were all the new proletariat and that they needed to be educated to rise up against imperialism and capitalism. Okay, so that's kind of the ideology behind the whole thing. Right. But at any rate, that presents then a challenge to. To the West. All right. And then just as a kind of a. To put a date on the Iron Curtain. You guys have all heard of the Iron Curtain. The Iron Curtain is basically the line between the green and every. Excuse me, between the purple and everything else here. And it's the parts of Europe that are behind. Under Soviet domination, I should say. And the. Basically the line is where the troops stopped. So at the end of the war, when the troops stopped advancing, where the Western troops and the Soviet troops met, essentially is where the line that becomes known as the Iron Curtain falls. And that Iron Curtain was given a name by Winston Churchill when he made a speech at Westminster College in Missouri in March of 1946 with President Truman on the stage. So that it was a major foreign policy statement. All right, questions, Comments about any of this? All right. Well, this really kind of particularly the Americans were taken by surprise, I think, by the Soviet attitude after that began at the Potsdam Conference. And the reason why was because the Americans and Soviets had been allies in World War II. So the thinking on the part of the Americans was that they would continue to be allies after World War II. But that wasn't obviously the case. And so the American foreign policy establishment was kind of taken by surprise. And so there was an American diplomat in Moscow, George Kennan. He wasn't the ambassador, but he had worked in Moscow for a long time. And he was asked, why are the Soviets acting this way? What is. What are they up to? And he answered in an 8,000-word telegram that becomes known as a long telegram. Why do you call it the long telegram, Melanie? Why do they call it the long telegram? Why would you call an 8000-word- Long Telegram a tele. A long telegram? Melanie, are you here? All right, let me see a show of hands. Put your hands up. Let's see them again. I don't understand why you even bothered to log in if you're not going to pay attention. Right, because I'm not usually taking role. All right, well, let's see. How about Francisco? Why Is the long telegram called the long telegram, I'm assuming because it's a long letter word. Exactly. That's exactly right. It's long telegram. That's why they call it the long telegram. Anyway, the point here is that the, the basic message of this was, well, here I put together the ideas that the Soviet policy is motivated by European political history. What's going on in Europe now, according to George Kennan after World War II is really the same foreign policy that was practiced by the Russian Empire. When we see them, for example, moving on Turkey and in Eastern Europe, they're trying to solve long term foreign policy objectives that have been there since before even the Russian Revolution. The next is that they're not interested in peaceful coexistence and they are determined to advance socialism. They're advocates. What Kennan advocates is a policy of containment, which basically the basic idea of containment is that we are not going to try to remove slave, sorry, sorry, Communism from where it already is, but we won't allow it to advance. Right. And so what the Western allies call containment, the Soviets end up calling encirclement, basically. All right, so we'll talk a little bit more about that in a minute. Right. Soviet powers, impervious to the logic of reason is highly sensitive to the logical force, basically meaning that they won't, you can't reason with them, but you can force them to back down by military power. And so that's going to set the stage then for a military standoff with the Soviets where the Western powers are always at least equal to Soviet power. It's a little bit like if you can remember going back to before World War I, it's a little bit like the idea of balance of power. But the Soviets are never in a place where they're so powerful that, that they can, they can easily face down the West. All right? And then the final thing is that the Kremlin will stand down when strong resistance is encountered. So basically the strategy then that's made by this policy is that if the Russians are aggressive or the Soviets are aggressive, then the west should also be the same aggressive. And as it escalates, both sides will equal aggression or at least the Western allies will continue to equal or to counter Soviet aggression until the point that the Soviets will back down. The prediction is that the Soviets will back down before they will go to war. So that's basically the outcome or the outline of the long telegram. Now let me just mention before I move on because we're not going to get a chance to spend very Much time talking about it today, but this actually ends up being proven in 1962 during the Cuban Missile Crisis. Because what happened in the Cuban Missile Crisis was that the Soviets could actually made an aggressive move in Cuba by putting Soviet medium range missiles in Cuba, which meant that Soviet missiles were in range of Washington D.C. and this was actually counter to NATO's decision to put medium range missiles in Turkey and Moscow being in range of NATO medium range missiles. Right. But what happened was that John Kennedy, the President of the United States, interpreted this as Soviet aggression and demanded that the missiles be removed. And then the world basically for a week moved toward military confrontation which could have been nuclear confrontation. But in the end, the Kremlin backed down. The United States also backed down because the United States did remove its missiles from Turkey. But it shows that this policy of brinksmanship actually turned out to be true. All right, questions? Comments about any of this? It's kind of strange though because it's like the opposite. It's the NATO placed their missiles first and then the Kremlin responded, right? Well, I mean, and then they, they didn't win that. They didn't win that aggression thing. You're like, doesn't it feel like the opposite if you do, if you do the thing first, it's not in response to the Kremlin. Well, one of you. That's true, but see, the thing about it is, is that the whole idea, this is probably something I left out, but the whole idea of the NATO missiles in Turkey was kind of kept on the down low, right? So when the Soviets put the missiles in Cuba, nobody mentioned the fact that Americans had missiles in Turkey. Right. And when the Soviets pulled the missiles out of Cuba, nobody mentioned that the Americans pulled the missiles out of Turkey. So really it was a matter of faith, right. That the Soviets were made to seem that they had backed down even though there had been a deal behind the behind the scenes. Does that make sense? Yeah, I read that as well. I mean, I totally get what you're saying. Right. But everything. Go ahead. No, no, you're fine. Yeah, well, every, everything in history, particularly diplomatic history, is very complicated, Right. At any rate, the outcome then or the result of the long telegram was that it laid the foundation for American and Western policy toward communism. And what's interesting about the long telegram was that Kennan was referring to Soviet strategy in Europe, but the way that the American foreign policy establishment interpreted it was that this was Soviet policy everywhere, right? So we come up with this idea, and this is the word, the phrase that I Use for monolithic world communist movement based in Moscow. Meaning that communism in the world is one thing, it has one center, and that's in Moscow. And that every place in the world that you see any movement toward communism or socialism, the Soviets are behind it. That's going to be the American and the Western strategy. The real reason why this is a problem is because there are a number of places in the world, particularly in Africa and Latin America and in Asia, who see socialism as a viable alternative or a viable remedy to colonialism. Right. So socialism has adherence to it that are not necessarily under the influence of the Soviet Union. And that was true, for example, in, in Guatemala, in Chile, in. I can't think of other places, but there's different places where there were movements towards socialism that were not being instigated necessarily by the Soviets. Right. Because they thought that socialism would be a way to overcome the detriments of, of, you know, decades of colonialism. All right. Questions, Comments about any of this. All right, so anyway, so here's what I call the three pillars of Western Cold War policy. It's based on three different approaches to containing Soviet aggression. The first one is ideological. The Truman Doctrine, where Truman went to Congress and asked for $400 million to support the governments of Greece and Turkey, where there were insurgencies that were being financed and encouraged by the Soviet Union. Now let's take a look at this just for a second and think, now why would the Soviet Union be interested in supporting an insurgency for a, for a friendly government in Greece and Turkey? Remember, remember World War I history, because of the Black Sea and being able to have a warm coast. Right. Warm water port. They don't have a warm water port anywhere else. The only one they have is here in the Crimea. And they've been blocked. They were blocked from access to it during World War I, which caused the fall of the Russian Empire. Right. So they're very concerned about securing this area. And that's really not tied at all to communism. It's tied to Soviet political, social, political interests. There's living questions, comments. At any rate, what Truman says in his doctrine basically is the idea that we will not allow any more territory in the world to fall to communism, which turns out not to be true. But we'll just say that for now that's the kind of the goal of containing communism where it already is. The second part of it was economic. And what happens is, and I've already mentioned this, really, the economies of every country in the world except the United States was just devastated by really, two world wars back to back, right? And what that meant was that after World War II, there were many, many, many people, particularly on the continent of Europe, who were displaced. They lost their homes, they'd lost their livelihoods. The industries were not working anymore. What that did was it created a lot of economic unrest. The fear was that this economic unrest would end up causing the people to be sympathetic to socialism. It would cause the people of. Of Western Europe to think that socialism is probably a good solution, which would mean then that they would become more friendly to the Soviet Union than to the West. And so what happened was that the United States government organized a plan called the Marshall Plan. And the idea behind the Marshall Plan was that every country in Europe, including the Soviet Union, were invited to a conference to determine the economic needs of these countries that had been devastated by the war so that the United States would be able to help them to rebuild their economies. And obviously, the Soviet Union and what we call the Eastern Bloc, the Eastern. The countries that essentially the Soviet Union occupied didn't participate in conference, but most of these other countries did. And when they did that, then they said they came up with a number of what they needed in order to rebuild their industries, and the United States paid that. The United States basically gave them the money that they needed to rebuild, including the Germans. And the purpose of that was to rebuild the economy, with the idea being that when the workers were happy, they wouldn't want to embark on a Soviet revolution or socialist revolution. And that actually turned out to be true. Within a few years, industry was humming again in Western Europe, and the threat of socialism, for the most part, passed. Although, you know, many parts of Europe are much more socialist than the United States is, but they're not under Soviet domination. All right, so the Marshall Plan actually ends up being the single most successful foreign policy initiative of the United States. All right, questions? Comments about this? Okay. And then. And then finally there was a. There was a real threat, actually, of Soviet military. Of the Soviet military. And I should mention that at the end of World War II, the Americans were delighted that the war was over. But both Churchill and Stalin thought that the war should continue because both of them saw that there would be a challenge from the other side. And Stalin's idea was that while he has armies on the move in Europe, he should actually continue to take over all of Europe. And Churchill thought that we're okay, fine, let's go there. But instead, the war stopped, but there was still that threat of Soviet aggression. And one of the reasons we know that is because the Soviet troops didn't move. Okay? So one of the things that happens kind of coming out of the Potsdam Conference was the division of east and West Germany, East Germany being under the influence of the Soviets, and West Germany being a NATO ally, a member of the West. Right. But the capital of Germany, or actually what had been the capital of Germany, was in Berlin. And Berlin is about 100 miles inside the border of the Soviet bloc. Right. So if we look then at Berlin at the first, Berlin was divided up into four sections. The east, which was occupied by the Soviets, administered by the Soviets, and then the French, the British, and the Americans. Eventually, what will happen is that West Berlin will be united under one administration. But the only way to get to West Berlin from the west is by a single road that connects Berlin to West Germany. And what happened was that at a certain point, 1947, I think, Stalin actually blocks the road. The idea was that there was no longer any way to get items in and out of Berlin. And the strategies many people believe was that Stalin was basically challenging the west to use the military to reopen that road so that he would have an excuse to continue his expansion into the. What would be his West. Right. And instead what happened was that the Western allies mounted an airlift, so there was an airlift that lasted for almost a year, where everything that needed to go in and out of Berlin went in and out by air. And eventually what happened was that Stalin backed down and they reopened the road, and then the road would reopen, would. Would remain open until 1989. All right, so the point, though, is that it demonstrated the necessity of a strong military to counter Soviet. So as a result of that, the United States and its allies formed a new alliance called NATO, North American Treaty Organization. And the purpose of this alliance was to counter Soviet military threat in Western Europe. All right, questions? Comments about this. So then the three ways of addressing communism, ideological, economic, and military, all are based on the political situation in Europe. Okay? And this is also what the long telegram focused on was the political situation in Europe. One of the main tragedies is this idea that the Western allies translate the political reality of Europe into international strategy. So we have the containment and economic policy and the military policy in Europe, and that turns out to be extremely successful. Right. But the attempt was made to make that same or to apply those same solutions everywhere else in the world, in Latin America and Asia and Africa. And that turns out not to be so successful because the political reality in those areas was different. So basically, then what happens is that from the point of view of the Western allies, the entire world becomes divided up into two. You're either with us or against us. And I think the Soviets thought the same way, right, that, that you're either on the side of the Americans or you're on the side of the Soviets. All right, you guys are with me. Questions. And that's kind of the way that they presented it to different countries in the world. The United States would say, we're going to give you all this help and all this support, military support and things like that if you're on our side, but if you're not, then we're gonna, we're gonna do whatever we can to kill you, essentially. Right? And the Soviets were kind of basically the same way. Right? So, so what we have then is a situation, a kind of a strategic situation between the Eastern and Western alliances that doesn't match political reality. Right? And particularly here we look at, we see most of the Cold War ideology playing out between nations in the Northern Hemisphere. And at the same time, many nations in the Southern Hemisphere are now recovering from colonization, are actively working toward decolonization. All right? And so what happens is that there's going to be a new group that was founded by the Prime Minister of India, Nehru, and this is going to be called the Non Aligned Movement. Right, the Non Aligned Movement. The argument behind that or the strategy behind that is that it doesn't make any sense for us to be aligned either with the Americans or with the Soviets. So we're not going to choose sides. Right? And the reason for that, obviously was because they realized that neither Soviets nor the Americans really had their best interests in mind. Their best interest instead were opposing the opposite side. Right? So many of these countries then that had formerly been colonized joined this Non Aligned Movement. And what we end up with then is what we call the three worlds, right? The first world is the United States and so called democratic liberal countries. The second world is the Communist bloc and the Third World is the Non Aligned Movement. Right? So when I say to you that some country is a Third World country, what's the first thing that comes to your mind? Developing. Developing. Or another way of saying that would be what? Or it's a poor country. Poor, exactly. And why do you think that is? Well, the reason why is because most of these countries that were just now becoming independent and just now overcoming the effects of imperialism are poor. So the Third World, although it was founded to indicate, or the, it was the phrase, was initiated to indicate those countries that were neither Soviet nor American. It ends up being associated with poverty. So a lot of countries that were never part of the third world end up being labeled third world because of poverty. Right, questions, Comments about this? Let's just in. When you guys go to your next academic cocktail party, you'll have something interesting to say, right? So questions, you guys do go to those parties, right? All right. Okay, now let's move on. Now here's where we're going to see how this works out in real life, okay? And, and where we're going to see it is in Vietnam. And there's. We could. We're going to it in Vietnam. We can see it in many other places as well. We could see it in, in Algeria, we can see it in Cuba, we can see it many other places, but we're going to look at it in Vietnam because it ends up being such an enormous tragedy. All right, so, so now the first thing we want to think about Vietnam, is that Vietnam, or the. What we call Vietnam today here, let's look at this map. Right. What we call Vietnam today is basically within this gray line. So what you see marked on this, on this map as north and South Vietnam is actually Vietnam. Right? And, and then the. It was part of a larger empire in Southeast Asia. They included also Laos and Cambodia, and that was called Indochina. Right. What happens is that at the end of the. You guys may or may not remember that the Japanese took over North Vietnam near the end of the war. But when the war ended, the. And when they did that, what the, the, the French regime that had been ruling in North Vietnam basically was forced to flee. Right? So that wasn't just North Vietnam, that was all of Vietnam. So the Japanese moved in. At the end of the war, the French administration was gone, French troops were gone. And so at the end of the war, the Japanese were forced to withdraw from Vietnam, but there was no government in Vietnam at that time because the French weren't there anymore. And they had been ruled by French colonial administration up until just a couple years earlier when the Japanese took over. Right. So there was a group in Vietnam called the Viet Minh that had been founded by Ho Chi Minh. Right? Ho Chi Minh. If you guys remember, I talked about Ho Chi Minh being at the Versailles Conference and trying to meet with President Wilson because he was very much in favor of Wilson's idea of national self determination, which basically means every government, every country should choose for itself what its government will be as long as it's democracy. Right? Okay. So after the Versailles Conference, many people who had been in support of Versailles ended up becoming members of the Comintern. And Ho Chi Minh became a member of the Comintern. When his group became active after World War II, or actually really before World War II, Ho Chi Minh was already labeled a Communist. Now, here's the problem with this, and it's not something that can easily be answered, because Ho Chi Minh definitely did work for the Communists. Ho Chi Minh definitely was a member of the Comintern. Ho Chi Minh did accept support from Communist China. But at the same time, Ho Chi Minh was also a nationalist, meaning that he was working for Vietnamese nationalism. Right? For a Vietnamese nation. But here's the problem. Communism and nationalism are antithetical, right? Communism is not supposed to be national. Communism is supposed to be international. You see what I'm saying? So what the question then becomes, was Ho Chi Minh really a nationalist who was using the communist support because he couldn't get support anywhere else? Or was he really a communist and not a nationalist at all? The answer to that is there's no way to know, because you can find documents that basically point to either side, right? So you can make either case. Right. The long and short of it is that after the Japanese withdrew from Vietnam and the French then tried to reestablish their empire in Southeast Asia, and During World War II, President Roosevelt had warned the French that they would not be allowed to reestablish their empire in Southeast Asia. Because Roosevelt was an anti imperialist, Ho Chi Minh sought support from the United States in a telegram that he sent to President Truman. So he says, I most earnestly appeal to you personally and to the American people to interfere urgently in support of our independence and help making the negotiations more in keeping with the principles of the Atlantic and San Francisco Charter. Okay, well, you know the way that. That Truman answered. Well, first off, let's go back. Why did the Vietnamese. Why did Ho Chi Minh appeal to the United States at that point and not the Communists? And the answer, obviously was the United States was now the most powerful country in the world, and they were anti imperialist, or so it was thought. Right? Because, you know, the United States had already given independence to the Philippine islands in the 1930s, right? And Roosevelt was a staunch anti imperialist. So it was thought that if you were, and if you were trying to decolonize, you could get support from the United States. But as I mentioned to you guys earlier, world diplomacy is very complex. And the problem that Truman had was that he really wasn't as anti imperialist as Roosevelt was, but he was anti Communist. And at this time, they were working on the treaty to bring together the NATO alliance. And Truman wanted to make sure that France was in the alliance. And so Truman didn't want to upset the French by preventing them from regaining their empire in Southeast Asia. So Truman, because Ho Chi Minh had already been identified as a communist, and because he didn't want to upset the French, Truman backs the French. In fact, he sends American vessels to carry French troops into Vietnam at the end of the war. All right, all right. Questions? Comments about that at all? Again, it's complicated, but it'll all come together in the end. So now what happens then is that there's actually a war, an anti colonial war going on in Southeast Asia between the Viet Minh and the French. And at the same time, and again, we're not really going to talk about this because we don't have a lot of time, but at the same time, there is a real anti communist war going on in Korea where the Soviets and the Chinese are trying to extinguish democracy in Korea and the United States is fighting a war against communists in Korea. And what happens is that the French, who are not necessarily fighting against communism, are able to convince the Americans that the struggle in Southeast Asia is the same as the struggle in Korea. It's part of this worldwide threat of communism, this monolithic world communist movement based in Moscow. Right. And the result of it is that the Americans support the French more and more and more. Right. And kind of the idea behind it you may or may not have heard of, this is what they call the domino effect, where if Vietnam falls to the communists and then, then Cambodia will fall, then Thailand and Burma, India, the whole world end up becoming communist. Right. So we have to stop it here. This is our idea of containment. All right? What ends up happening is that they end up basically with two governments in Vietnam, one in Hanoi that's led by the Viet Minh, which was Ho Chi Minh's group, by the way, when they published their declaration of independence, it was worded in such a way as to call to mind the American declaration of independence, with the idea being that the North Vietnamese or the Vietnamese people were fighting the same kind of independence movement that the Americans had at the beginning. Right. All right. So anyway, at any rate, a new government that's really supported by the French is formed in the south and it's led by. Well, actually there's an emperor, but the emperor lives in France and he has never been to Southeast Asia and he really doesn't know anything about governing Southeast Asia. So the guy that actually is running things in South Vietnam is this guy named Ngo Dinh Diem. And this basically is a colonial puppet state. Okay? And what happens is that. Well, how am I going to say this? Okay, so the one thing that we need to understand about the unrest in Vietnam is that everybody in Vietnam was anti colonial. So you could say pretty much everybody in Vietnam was anti French, but that didn't mean that they were pro communist. Many people were. There were many different groups in Vietnam that were anti colonialist, that were not anti democracy or anti communist or that were not in favor of communism. But Ngo Dinh Diem, being a kind of a strong man, extinguished all of the opposition in Vietnam besides the Viet Minh. Meaning that there was really no alternative to Ngo Dinh Diem as the leader of a theoretically democratic Vietnam. Okay? The problem with that was that Ngo Dinh Diem was a. An imperial. He was a basically a beneficiary of French imperialism. He. He was a French colonialist. And he was not. He was. He was not really like pretty much anybody. So Ngo Dinh Diem couldn't. Couldn't garner a support system like Ho Chi Minh had. So Ho Chi Minh had millions of people supporting him, and Ngo Dinh Diem had millions of people opposing him. Right? And in the meantime, the French are losing, right? It's a war of attrition, very much like what happened to the Americans in Vietnam. Right? The French are losing. And eventually what happens is that the French public starts to say, why are we fighting these anti colonial wars? Why don't we just give up the empire? Why don't we just let Algeria go? Why don't we just let Vietnam go, right? And so the people become anti war, much like in the United States. And the result of it is then that the French start to lose interest in Vietnam. And what ends up happening is that the Americans become more and more aggressive toward the French to continue their fighting in Vietnam. Because by this time, the Americans are convinced that this is all about communism and that if Vietnam falls, that if the French are forced to withdraw, that it will become communist. Right? And so in the end, the. There is a. A battle, a campaign in a battle that's fought at a place called Dien Bien Phu, where the French army is essentially humiliated by the Vietnamese, okay? And at the same time, there was a. There was a conference in Geneva to figure out a way for the French to be able to withdraw from Vietnam. And so what ends up happening is that they sign some accords. And what the accords do is it divides Vietnam. The French Leave. Vietnam is divided into two different countries, north and South Vietnam. With the idea being that in 1968. Excuse me, 1956. I don't know why I said 68 in 1956, that there will be all Vietnam. Vietnam elections. And whichever group wins, either Ho Chi Minh or Ngo Dinh Diem will become the government of all of Vietnam. Okay, you guys are with me. Any questions up to now? The problem with this, as I've already mentioned to you, is that millions of people like Ho Chi Minh and millions of people don't like Ngo Dinh Diem. And so it becomes obvious to the Diem regime and also to the United States that if they actually hold elections, that the north, the communists, will win or Ho Chi Minh will win, right? And so what happens then is that the United States essentially pulls the civilizing mission card, right? The white man's burden card. The people of Vietnam are not really ready for democracy. They're not really ready to govern themselves. And so if they were allowed to vote now, they would choose the wrong thing. And so what we're going to do is we're not going to allow them to vote. What we'll do is we'll maintain the status quo until the people are educated enough to be able to. To be able to make a wise decision at the. At the voting, at the. The election. All right, you guys are with me. Questions? Comments about this? So basically then, what we have is the United States, who is theoretically promoting democracy, is preventing elections to support democracy. Does that sound like it makes sense? Well, I'll let you guys figure that out on your own. Right. This is actually a French newspaper of the. The fall of Dien Bien Phu, which is basically the end of French influence in Southeast Asia. All right, questions? Comments so far? All right, so. So then I already kind of mentioned to you this, that diem halts the 1956 elections. There's a new group that forms in southeast. In South Vietnam called the National Liberation Front, who we know of as the Viet Cong, right? And we already know that Ngo Dinh Diem was unpopular, and he becomes more unpopular by the day. And the United States realizes that if that the people of Vietnam are never going to choose a government by Ngo Dinh Diem. So they agree. The United States agrees to back a coup by South Vietnamese generals to replace Ngo Dinh Diem. Now, here's one of the bigger tragedies of the entire Vietnam affair, and that is going as far back as Truman. Every American administration knew, but there was no viable political person or movement in Vietnam that would be popular enough to gather to gain the support of the people against Ho Chi Minh. Right? This was known by Truman, it was known by Eisenhower, it was known by Kennedy, it was known by Johnson, and it was known by Nixon. Right? Every one of those presidents knew that. Okay? But all of them were afraid that if Vietnam fell to the communists, then they would be blamed for it and that would be the end of their political career. Right? So the tragedy that happens in Vietnam is in large part fueled by the political ambitions of certain American leaders. Right, you guys are with me. Questions, comments about this? We'll keep going. All right, so now what happens is that once GM is gone, there's again nobody can replace him. So there's a, there's a series, a period of political instability. And the United States is going to realize that if, if the conditions in Vietnam aren't changed by the introduction of American troops, that Vietnam is going to fall to the Viet, to the communists. Right? And so there's an incident that happens in the Gulf of Tonkin which is basically right here in the bigger map, right? And it has to do with an attack by Vietnamese gunboats on an American ship called the Maddox. Right? The first attack actually did happen and it should be noted that the Maddox was actually on station to support South Vietnamese operations in North Vietnam. Okay? The second incident is questioned. It may, may or may not have happened. Probably didn't happen actually, but it gets reported as another attack by the North Vietnamese on American ships. Now, we have to understand something about Johnson here because Johnson was a Democrat. He was elected on a domestic policy platform, meaning his whole Great Society thing, which has to do with Medicare and Medicaid and education and all those different things, but he was also under the pressure not to allow any part of the world to fall to communism. And so he decides to use this incident as an excuse to introduce American troops into Vietnam. And in 1965, he starts bombing North Vietnam, which is called Operation Rolling Thunder. And there's actually no way to know a, an accurate number of people that were killed in this operation that lasted for several years, but a Conservative estimate is 900,000. Right? 900,000 people killed by American bombs in an area that's that big, not even as big as New Jersey. Right? And then the United States sends in ground troops, 100,000 at first becomes 500,000, half a million troops in 1968. And keep in mind, this is a very small country. Right? At the height of the so called war on Terror, there were less than 300,000 troops in Afghanistan and Iraq. Right? You guys are with me. So here in this very small area, we have half a million Americans. And what that's going to do is that eventually Americans are going to figure out that they're not fighting to save democracy, that they're actually fighting to save the interests of what's left of the French colonialists and the Vietnamese people, both in the north and the south, are going to come to recognize the United States as another imperial power. Basically. Then we have the United States fighting against the proxies of the Chinese and the Soviets against communism, and we have the Vietnamese fighting against the United States and the Chinese and the Soviets against. Against imperialism, okay? And this is where we see that disconnect between decolonization and the Cold War. Because as long as the United States believe that they were fighting a war against communism, then their activities in Vietnam could be justified. But if it had been reframed with the idea that the United States was supporting independence against essentially foreign rule, then the outcome may have been different. And we see that not just in Vietnam, but in many other places as well. But the point here, then is that's where the tragedy really lies, is that the United States thinks it's fighting a war against communism when it's really fighting a war against peasants, right? And the people of the United States eventually will realize this. And the people who will come to realize it more acutely than anyone else is going to be young people because there's a draft, right? And basically anybody that turns 18 can be or is subject to the draft and can be sent to Vietnam. And although at the very beginning of the war, many Americans were all in favor of that, thinking, yeah, we're going to go and we're going to save democracy. But after a couple of years of the war, everybody realized that's not what they were fighting for, and nobody wanted to go. And so there's going to be opposition that grows in the United States. It's going to be fed by a massive offensive in 1968 during Tet, which is a kind of a religious holiday in Southeast Asia, right? Or in Asia. And what will happen is that the Vietnamese and the Viet Cong will attack all these different places where you kind of see the little burrs, right, on the same day during Tet. And the problem with that is that the United States wasn't expecting an attack because the United States fights civilized wars, right? And what that means is that we won't fight on Tet, and you don't fight on Christmas, Right? That kind of thing. And so they were taken by surprise. And the reality of this offensive was that within just a couple of days, the United States was able to turn it around and soundly defeated the North Vietnamese army and the Viet Cong. But in the meantime, what had happened was that during this period of time, the American government had been telling the American people that the war is almost over, that we're going to be bringing the kids home by Christmas. And, and now all of a sudden they turn on the 6 o' clock news and there's attacks throughout Vietnam. People are being attacked everywhere. American troops are under pressure everywhere and the people are going to say, hey, wait a minute, it sounds like the government's been lying to me. And in fact government had been lying to them. Right? And the result of that then is an American public opinion turns inexorably against the war in Vietnam. Right? So Nixon is actually elected president on the platform of I've got a secret plan to end the war in Vietnam. But, sorry, but, but he actually never really, as far as we know, had a secret plan other than to keep bombing and to invade Cambodia. But in the end, the pressure becomes so great that the Americans actually negotiate a peace right in Paris signed in January of 1973. The peace treaty itself actually ends up being a capitulation by the Americans to the North Vietnamese. The Americans are saying, okay, we're going to pull our, our troops by this date and then you guys can keep your troops in Vietnam. But we're not gonna, but, but you're not gonna be able to attack, right? You're not gonna be able to fight anymore, even though you've got all your troops in Vietnam already, right? So when we leave, there'll be nothing to stop you. But, but, but we know, we trust that you're not gonna, you're not gonna. Well, that didn't actually happen. What happened was as soon as the Americans were gone, the Viet Cong or the, actually the North Vietnam Viet Cong actually took over. And then when the North Vietnamese moved in, they destroyed the Viet Cong and established their communist regime. So, so that's basically the kind of the story of the, of the Cold War and decolonization. Questions, comments about any of this? Well, I got just a little bit more for you guys. Now. The Soviets kind of played the same card as the Americans in Afghanistan, right? A Soviet sent troop into Afghanistan to try to support, to uphold a Marxist regime in Afghanistan. But that Marxist regime was actually in competition or in conflict with another group that's called the Mujahideen Islamic Group. That or Islamist group that ends up being eventually the Taliban. The mujahideen were given arms and training by Americans as the Soviets had given arms and training to the Vietnamese to oppose the Soviets in Afghanistan. And the Soviets are eventually forced to withdraw. All right, which left the Taliban in control in Afghanistan. You guys know the rest of the story. If you don't, it's not going to be part of this course. Right. At any rate, this is going to weaken the Soviet Union. And then at the same time, there are a number of revolutions in Eastern Europe, in Czechoslovakia, in Hungary and in Poland that are agitating for, for independence from the Soviet Union. And at the Same time, in 1980, Ronald Reagan is elected President of the United States and undertakes a massive military buildup with the idea being that the United States is going to end the Cold War by becoming so powerful. Basically the idea was that the Americans would spend so much money on so called defense. Right. That the Soviets wouldn't be able to keep up and the Soviet economy would falter and the Soviet Union would fall. And that turned out to be actually a, that turned out to be a valid strategy. That's exactly what did happen, right. What happened toward the end of the, what happened toward the end of the 80s, right, was that the Soviet Union was under a lot of pressure and they elected a new General secretary. His name was Gorbachev, Michael Gorbachev, Mikhail Gorbachev. And Gorbachev eventually was forced to introduce reform to the Soviet system. So the reforms were called perestroika and glasnost. Perestroika was basically a restructuring of the Soviet system. And glasnost was an openness to criticism which unleashed a torrent of criticism throughout the Soviet Union and the rest of the world. Right. And so basically then we see the Soviets by the end of the 1980s under a lot of pressure. And I wanted to go ahead and just play this little clip. It only takes about, it's less than two minutes. But just kind of pay attention to this. We welcome change and openness, for we believe that freedom and security go together, that the advance of human liberty, the advance of human liberty can only strengthen the cause of world peace. There is one sign the Soviets can make that would be unmistakable, that would advance dramatically the cause of freedom and peace. General Secretary Gorbachev, if you seek peace, if you seek prosperity for the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, if you seek liberalization, come here to this gate, Mr. Gorbachev. Open this gate, Mr. Gorbachev. Mr. Gorbachev. Teared down this wall well, Gorbachev didn't tear down the Wall, but two years later, the German people tore down the Wall. And so I guess you could say that really marks the end of the Cold War, but it obviously doesn't mark the end of world conflict. And I wish I could. I wish I could. I wish I could actually make this, make some kind of a statement that would say, okay, we finally did it. But the reality is that history goes on even though we have to stop at some point. And so we're going to stop now. We're going to stop with the fall of the Berlin Wall and the end of the Cold War. And the rest of the history is going to be up to you guys to make. I'm not going to do it because I'm just going to suck up your Social Security and die. Right, but. But you guys are on the hook, right? You guys are going to have to do it. Okay, Any questions or comments about anything? If you guys are. You guys should look at your, your, your pages on canvas. Let me show you here. Can you guys, can you guys see canvas now? Yes. You guys see canvas? Yes. Okay, so. So now if you go to people and then group, right? And let's just say, for example, you're in group three, you. You'll notice that I put a document there or a link to a document that you might find interesting, right? And, and then also, if you're in. We are here. I gotta go switch group. Okay. If you're in group two, I did the same thing. So you guys should look there, right? And I'm going to keep doing that over the next couple of days. So just kind of keep your eye on this, these pages so you can find, you may be able to find some documents that could help you. All right? And then again, try to. If you have problems, send me an email and I'll try to remember to log in and, and, and do what I can to help you guys between now and Tuesday. All right? Any questions, comments by any of this? Are you guys done listening to me? Because I'm done talking. Live long and prosper. Thanks, Professor. All right, you guys have a good weekend. Thank you. You know, it's raining right now, Professor. Oh, yeah, it's really cold. Yeah, it's kind of weird. Take care, guys. Hopefully about this fire. Yeah, what is that wet stuff coming from? I'm sorry. Yeah, it's raining on the fire. It's causing smoke. Hopefully I'll put it out. Yeah. Yeah, maybe. All right, you guys have a good one.